

Overall, the biggest issue that I see in the current course is how **overwhelmed** the students are. As I will write later, there are a lot of aspects about this course that confuse the students as to what the exact syllabus is and what it is that they need to know/study. There is minimal coherency in the materials: the script, lecture videos, multiple choice questions a.k.a. exercise sheets, bonus problems with **each of them introducing a new concept for the student to learn**.  

---
##### Materials
I personally believe this has one of the biggest room for improvement:
1. **The script**: the NumCS script is currently a ~700 page pdf document that is rather an encyclopedia of information. The syllabus for this course is only a proper subset of the script and over the years and the reduction of the syllabus, only roughly half if not less of the script is actually covered in the lectures. This, in my opinion, is the biggest source of feeling overwhelmed, aggravated by the following points:
	- The lecture videos "jump" between sections of the script. It is really not clear what is part of the syllabus and what is not, especially because there are parts of the script **not covered in the lecture** even within the same sub-chapter of the script. 
	- This has led to the professor or TAs making **exercise sheets/test problems on materials not covered in the lectures**, especially if they have not watched the lecture videos thoroughly but only have seen the lecture titles and have assumed that everything in the corresponding parts in the script are covered in the lecture videos. This can be mitigated by having the professor/TA actually watch the videos or teach the course themselves.
	- The script in the parts that are covered in the lecture, **still freely refers to results from the uncovered parts**. The students in the course are left confused whether knowledge on these matters are necessary.
	- **The formatting of the script could use some improvement**. The way the current script has a very small margin and is packed with information here and there with scary colors, it is quite intimidating just from the aesthetic point of view.
2. **The coding problems**: These are contained in another 300 page document (overwhelming the students yet again). They had more value when the exam still had a coding part, but now with the exam having minimal coding part, it is a great burden for the students. Moreover, this document provides full solutions to every single problem and using this as a bonus problem rather incentivizes students to look at the solutions to get the bonus points rather than actually solve and challenge them.
   
   The code in the document also quite often uses functions not seen in lecture content before (even in cases where there are perfect alternatives seen in class). This confuses the students even further, because it is not the most natural solution a student would come up with after having seen the lectures.
3. **The multiple choice problems**: contains concepts not covered in class but are in the script, contains concepts not covered in class and are not in the script. This addition worsens the situation, where there was already **too much to know**.
---
##### Content
- **Regarding Linear Algebra**: The NumCS content assumes that the students have a thorough understanding of linear algebra. However, for an ordinary student, there are two challenges.
	1. NumCS happens **1 year after** they have seen linear algebra for the last time,
	2. the linear algebra knowledge expected in NumCS is **rather a thorough understanding of the theory**, whereas the linear algebra course, as far as I am concerned, is quite **calculation based**. The current linear algebra exam and exercises rather focuses on e.g. how to compute the basis of the kernel of a given linear map, which is practiced and done by plenty of students by practicing with the "Kochrezept". However, this is not sufficient to follow the NumCS lectures with ease.
- **Regarding Analysis**: This is rather minor but NumCS does introduce concepts that are introduced in Analysis II, before they are introduced in that course. I have received complaints about this, as the students were quite overwhelmed, but this diminished towards the exams, when they were properly introduced with the concepts.
- **Survey lecture**: This course, like most other numerical methods course, is a **survey lecture**. However, as a student and a TA, I am confused myself if it truly is for the following reasons:
  
  In the lectures to a new concept or method, we see many different case problems as examples. This could be an entirely new setting based in physics, a new type of mathematical objects, new theorems where one can apply the conceptual ideas given in the lectures to apply them in this new setting.
  
  However, in many exercise problems or coding problems, it is not just about applying the concepts we have learned, sometimes students need to have **a thorough understanding of these new settings introduced as examples as well**. This, together with the plethora of examples from different topics to showcase the power of numerical methods, is an unpleasant learning experience of feeling not enough at every point of the course. In previous years, there was a tradeoff as one was given full access to the script during the exam, however, a change is necessary now that that is not the case anymore. A clear distinction between what is important in this course and what is not is essential. 
---
##### Organization
- **Using the old lecture videos**: The videos have been receiving feedbacks for the last 3 years, during which they have been used as the main lecture material. However, there was no changes made to the videos since. Following are a few problems:
	1. The explanations in the lecture videos are not the most easy. In some topics there were parts where I had to look up in the script or internet to actually fill in the logical jumps the professor makes readily.
	2. There are indexing inconsistencies/typos/mistakes in the videos. Some of them are also present in the script. The problem is that some mistakes are updated in the script, but they are not in the old lecture videos. They might have been communicated in the previous years when they were found and corrected, but if that is not communicated every year, students are left with lecture videos and the script contradicting each other/using different notations, for reasons they cannot comprehend, causing more confusion.
	3. The videos are cut and edited to be more compact than the original version, so the pace is quite faster than a normal lecture recording. This hinders to student to actually think with and follow the lecturer.
- **Flipped Classroom Format**: This allows the students to really easily slack off and lose track of the course. Because everyone is supposed to watch the video at home in the time of their own preference, although this provides great flexibility for the students, but also this can be easily put off. This naturally leads to students not going to QnA sessions, especially because it also does not feel comfortable asking the professor about a lecture content that was "presented" a couple of weeks ago. I think a classroom where the students can follow the lecturer as they explain and can ask questions at the spot if there have any troubles understanding, to be a lot healthier. Should a student want more flexibility in when to watch the lectures, providing the recordings is equally good of a solution.
- **Bonus Problems**: In the last semester, the bonus problems were around 10 problems chosen from the coding problems document. In order to receive the full bonus point, a student had to complete any 3 bonus problem of their choice and hold an interview for each problem with the TAs where they can present their knowledge. It is quite clear why this was done: 
	- As the coding problem solutions were public, the interviews were necessary to check whether the students have really solved the tasks.
	- As the interviews take quite some time, the TAs could only accomodate 3 interviews per student.

	However, this does not encourage the students to stay on track at all, as they could do any 3 bonus exercise of their choice at any given time during the semester. 
---
##### Suggestions
1. **Write a compact, concise script that only covers the syllabus** so the students have a good understanding of what is important and what isn't.
2. **Stop using the flipped classroom format** and have the lecturers/TAs actually know what is taught and what isn't. 
3. **Have bonus problems actually encourage the students to stay on track**. This could for example be multiple choice mini-test at every exercise class or a new oding problem where the solution is not public.
---