##### Problem 1
Let $G$ be a graph on $n$ vertices and $\geq 2n-2$ edges. We notice that there is a connected component $C$ of $G$ s.t. $G[C]$ has $\geq 2\left| C \right|-2$ edges. Hence, wlog we may assume that $G$ is connected.

Let $T$ be a spanning tree of $G$. Any new edge added create exactly one cycle by Corollary 2.8, and we have at least $n-1$ different edges we could add. Note that the new edge could be added between vertices of distance $2\leq d(u,v)\leq n-1$. By pigeonhole, there is at least two different cycles (they are different as there is one edge they do not share.)

---
##### Problem 2
*We need the assumption that $G$ is connected. Otherwise the statement is wrong.*

Assume $G$ is not $2$-connected, i.e. there exists a cut vertex $v\in V$ s.t. in $G \backslash v$ there are the connected components $C_{1},\dots,C_{\ell}$. Now, let $e$ be an edge incident to $v$ and $C_{1}$, which exists as $G$ is connected. Then, consider the perfect matching $M$ containing $e$. Then, as every matching edge that cross $C_{2},\dots,C_{\ell}$ stays in that connected component, we have that $\left| C_{i} \right|$ is even for all $i\geq 2$. Further, $\left| C_{1} \right|$ is odd. This is a contradiction if consider an edge $f$ incident to $v$ and $C_{2}$ this time and repeat the procedure. 

---
##### Problem 3
Let $G$ be a graph on the vertex set $x_{1},\dots,x_{n}$ where $x_{i}\sim x_{j}$ iff $x_{i}+x_{j}\in \mathbb{Q}$ for $i\neq j$. We show that $G$ is triangle-free: If $x_{i},x_{j},x_{k}$ form a triangle, then we have that $x_{i}+x_{j},x_{j}+x_{k},x_{i}+x_{k}\in \mathbb{Q}$ and by adding the three and dividing it by two, $$x_{i}+x_{j}+x_{k}\in \mathbb{Q}$$Therefore, $x_{k}=x_{i}+x_{j}+x_{k}-x_{i}-x_{j}\in \mathbb{Q}$ which is a contradiction. Hence, $G$ is triangle-free and: $$e(G)\leq \text{ex}(n,K_{3})=\left\lfloor n^{2} / 4\right\rfloor $$by Turan. 

---
##### Problem 4
Following the proof of Theorem 6.14, we have that if $G$ doesn't have any cycles of length $3,4,5$, then: $2e=\sum_{i} f_{i}\geq 6f$. Hence, $f\leq \frac{1}{3}e$ and by Euler $n-\frac{2}{3}e\geq2$ and $e\leq \frac{3}{2}n-3$. 

Now, we show that $\chi(G)\leq 3$. If $G$ is a forest, then it is $2$-colorable and we are done. Otherwise, $G$ has a cycle $C$ of length $\geq 6$. We show the statement by induction over $n$. If $n=6$, then $G=C_{6}$ and it is $3$-colorable. For $n\geq 7$, we claim that there is a vertex $v$ with $d(v)\leq 2$. Otherwise, $$e(G)=\frac{1}{2}\sum_{v}^{}d(v)\geq \frac{3n}{2}> \frac{3n}{2}-3$$which is a contradiction. Hence, if we consider $G':= G \backslash v$, then by induction hypothesis we have that $G'$ is $3$-colorable. As $d(v)\leq 2$, we can also safely extend the coloring into a proper $3$-coloring of $G$.

---
##### Problem 5
---
##### Problem 6
Let $G$ be a connected graph. First note that if $G$ has a vertex $v$ with $d(v)\geq R(n,n)$, then $G[N(v)]$ has either a clique $K_{n}$ or an independent set of size $n$. Therefore, we only need to look at the case where $\Delta(G)\leq k:=R(n,n)-1$. 

Notice that the shortest path between two vertices is always induced. Suppose that $P_{n}$ doesn't exist in $G$ as an induced subgraph. Then, we have that for every two vertices $v,w$, we have that $d(v,w)\leq n-2$. As $G$ is connected and $\Delta(G)\leq k$, there is a finite number $N(n)$ s.t. any connected graph on $N(n)$ vertices have $P_{n}$ if $\Delta(G)\leq k$.

---
