##### Problem 1
Let $G$ be a graph on $n$ vertices and $\geq 2n-2$ edges. We notice that there is a connected component $C$ of $G$ s.t. $G[C]$ has $\geq 2\left| C \right|-2$ edges. Hence, wlog we may assume that $G$ is connected.

Let $T$ be a spanning tree of $G$. Any new edge added create exactly one cycle by Corollary 2.8, and we have at least $n-1$ different edges we could add. Note that the new edge could be added between vertices of distance $2\leq d(u,v)\leq n-1$. By pigeonhole, there is at least two different cycles (they are different as there is one edge they do not share.)

---
##### Problem 2
*We need the assumption that $G$ is connected. Otherwise the statement is wrong.*

Assume $G$ is not $2$-connected, i.e. there exists a cut vertex $v\in V$ s.t. in $G \backslash v$ there are the connected components $C_{1},\dots,C_{\ell}$. Now, let $e$ be an edge incident to $v$ and $C_{1}$, which exists as $G$ is connected. Then, consider the perfect matching $M$ containing $e$. Then, as every matching edge that cross $C_{2},\dots,C_{\ell}$ stays in that connected component, we have that $\left| C_{i} \right|$ is even for all $i\geq 2$. Further, $\left| C_{1} \right|$ is odd. This is a contradiction if consider an edge $f$ incident to $v$ and $C_{2}$ this time and repeat the procedure. 

---
##### Problem 3
Let $G$ be a graph on the vertex set $x_{1},\dots,x_{n}$ where $x_{i}\sim x_{j}$ iff $x_{i}+x_{j}\in \mathbb{Q}$ for $i\neq j$. We show that $G$ is triangle-free: If $x_{i},x_{j},x_{k}$ form a triangle, then we have that $x_{i}+x_{j},x_{j}+x_{k},x_{i}+x_{k}\in \mathbb{Q}$ and by adding the three and dividing it by two, $$x_{i}+x_{j}+x_{k}\in \mathbb{Q}$$Therefore, $x_{k}=x_{i}+x_{j}+x_{k}-x_{i}-x_{j}\in \mathbb{Q}$ which is a contradiction. Hence, $G$ is triangle-free and: $$e(G)\leq \text{ex}(n,K_{3})=\left\lfloor n^{2} / 4\right\rfloor $$by Turan. 

---
##### Problem 4
