#Definition #Algebra

> [!definition]
> Let $S$ be a commutative [[Ring|ring]], $R\subseteq S$ a [[subring]] and $\alpha\in S$. Consider the homomorphism:$$\begin{array}{cccc} {\varphi_{\alpha}:}&{R[X]}&\to&{R[\alpha]}\\&{f(x)} &\mapsto & {f(\alpha)} \end{array}{}$$Then, 
> 1. if $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}=(0)$, then $\alpha$ is ***transcendental  over $R$***.
> 2. if $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}\neq(0)$, then $\alpha$ is ***algebraic  over $R$***.
 
- **Related definition**: For fields $K:F$, $F[X]$ is a [[Principal Ideal Domain|PID]] and therefore $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}=(p)$ for some $p\in F[X]$. Therefore,  $\alpha\in K$ is algebraic over $F$ if $\alpha$ is a root of non-zero $p(x)\in F[X]$. Then, $F(\alpha)$ is called the ***algebraic extension generated by $\alpha$***. Further, $\alpha$ is transcendental if such polynomial doesn't exist.
- **Related definition**: A [[Field Extension|field extension]] $K:F$ is called an ***algebraic extension*** if every element $K$ is algebraic over $F$.
---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Proposition 1 (Algebraic and Transcendental Elements for Fields)
> Let $K:F$ be a field extension and $\alpha\in K$. Then, TFAE:
> 1. $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$. 
> 2. $\alpha$ is a root of a non-zero polynomial $f\in F[X]$.

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. if $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$, then $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}\neq(0)$ and there exists a non-zero $f\in F[X]$ s.t. $f(\alpha)=0$. 
> 2. if $\alpha$ is a root of a non-zero polynomial $f\in F[X]$, then wlog assume that $f$ is irreducible. Otherwise there exists $g|f$ s.t. $g$ is irreducible and has $\alpha$ as root. Then, $$\varphi_{\alpha}:F[X]\to F[X] /(f(x))\cong F(\alpha),\quad h(x)\mapsto h(\alpha)$$where $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}=(f(x))\neq 0$. 
- **Corollary**: Similarly, $\alpha\in K$ is transcendental over $F$ if there is no non-zero polynomial $f\in F[X]$ with $\alpha$ as root.
---
> [!lemma] Proposition 2 (Minimal Polynomial)
> Let $\alpha$ be algebraic over $F$. Then,
> 1. $\alpha$ is algebraic over any field extension $L:F$.
> 1. there exists a unique monic irreducible polynomial $m_{\alpha,F}(x)\in F[X]$ that has $\alpha$ as root. 
> 2. if $f(x)\in F[X]$ also has $\alpha$ as root then, $m_{\alpha,F}(x)|f(x)$ in $F[X]$.

^15dd97

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. any polynomial $f\in F[X]$ is also in $L[X]$ for any extension $L:F$.
> 2. Since $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$, there exists a polynomial over $F$ which has $\alpha$ as root. Let $m(x)\in F[X]$ be such polynomial with minimal degree. By multiplying it with constant if necessary, we can assume that $m$ is monic.
> 
> 	- **Showing that $m$ is irreducible**:
> 	Assume $m$ is reducible. Then, there exists $a(x),b(x)\in F[X]$ s.t. $m(x)=a(x)b(x)$ and $\deg a,\deg b<\deg m$. Since $m(\alpha)=0$, we have either $a(\alpha)=0$ or $b(\alpha)=0$. However, this is contradictory to the minimality assumption.
> 	- **Showing that $m|f$ in $F[X]$**:
> 	Let $f(x)\in F[X]$ s.t. $f(\alpha)=0$. Then, using the Euclidean algorithm we can find $q(x),r(x)\in F[X]$ s.t. $$f(x)=q(x)m(x)+r(x)$$with $\deg r<\deg m$. Then, we have: $$0=f(\alpha)=q(\alpha)m(\alpha)+r(\alpha)=r(\alpha)$$However, this contradicts the minimality assumption if $r$ is non-zero. Therefore, $m(x)|f(x)$. 
> 	
> 	  This especially shows the uniqueness of such polynomial.

^dd6eee

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 3
> Let $K:F$ and $\alpha\in K$. TFAE:
> 1.  $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$. 
> 2. $[F(\alpha):F]<+\infty$

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. (1=>2):  holds from [[Minimal Polynomial|Theorem 2]]. 
> 2. (2=>1): For the converse, suppose that $[F(\alpha):F]=n$. Then, $$1,\alpha,\dots,\alpha^n$$are linearly dependent and there exists $b_{0},\dots,b_{n}\in F$ not all zero, s.t. $$b_{0}+b_{1}\alpha+\dots+b_{n}\alpha^n=0$$By defining $g(x):=b_{0}+b_{1}x+\dots+b_{n}x^n\in F[X]$, we have that $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$. 
- **Corollary**: If $[K:F]$ is finite, $K:F$ is an [[Algebraic and Transcendental Element|algebraic extension]]. (cf. [[Field Extension|Theorem 2]])
- **Remark**: The converse is false. $[\overline{\mathbb{Q}}:\mathbb{Q}]=\infty$.
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 4
> Let $L:K:F$. If $L$ is algebraic over $K$ and $K$ is algebraic over $F$, then $L$ is algebraic over $F$. 

> [!proof]-
> Let $\alpha\in L$. Then, $\alpha$ is algebraic over $K$ and therefore, there exists a polynomial $$p(x)=a_{0}+a_{1}\alpha+\dots+a_{n}\alpha^n\in K[X]$$As $a_{i}$ is algebraic over $F$ for all $i$, we have: $[F(a_{0},a_{1},\dots,a_{n}):F]<+\infty$. Therefore, $$[F(a_{0},a_{1},\dots,a_{n},\alpha):F]=[F(a_{0},a_{1},\dots,a_{n},\alpha):F(a_{0},\dots,a_{n})][F(a_{0},\dots ,a_{n}):F]<+\infty$$Therefore, $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$.
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 5 (Transcendental Element Isomorphism Extension)
> For a [[Field Extension|field extension]] $L:K$ and $\alpha\in L$ transcendental over $K$. Then, 
> 1. $\text{ev}_{\alpha}:K[x]\to K[\alpha]$ extends to a field isomorphism: $\Phi_{\alpha}:K(x)\to K(\alpha)$.

> [!proof]-
> Since $\alpha\in L$ is transcendental over $K$, $g(\alpha)\neq 0$ for any $g\in K[X] \backslash \{ 0 \}$ and we can define the map: $$\begin{array}{cccc} {\Phi_{\alpha}:}&{K(x)=K[X]\times(K[X]\backslash\{ 0 \})}&\to&{K(\alpha)}\\&{(f,g)} &\mapsto & {f(\alpha)g(\alpha)^{-1}} \end{array}{}$$
> If $(f,g)\sim(f',g')$, then: $f(\alpha)g'(\alpha)=f'(\alpha)g(\alpha)$ and: $$f(\alpha)g(\alpha)^{-1}=f(\alpha)g'(\alpha)g'(\alpha)^{-1}g(\alpha)^{-1}=f'(\alpha)g(\alpha)g'(\alpha)^{-1}g(\alpha)^{-1}=f'(\alpha)g'(\alpha)^{-1}$$Thus, $\Phi_{\alpha}$ is well-defined. It is then straightforward to see that $\Phi_{\alpha}$ is an isomorphism. 
---
