#Definition #Algebra

> [!definition]
> Let $S$ be a commutative [[Ring|ring]], $R\subseteq S$ a [[subring]] and $\alpha\in S$. Consider the homomorphism:$$\begin{array}{cccc} {\varphi_{\alpha}:}&{R[X]}&\to&{R[\alpha]}\\&{f(x)} &\mapsto & {f(\alpha)} \end{array}{}$$Then, 
> 1. if $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}=(0)$, then $s_{0}$ is ***transcendental  over $R$***.
> 2. if $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}\neq(0)$, then $s_{0}$ is ***algebraic  over $R$***.

- **Corollary**: If $s_{0}\in R$, then $-a+X\in \mathfrak{a_{s_{0}}}$. Therefore, $s_{0}\in R$ is always algebraic and $$R[X] / (X-a)\cong R$$ 
- **Related definition**: For fields $K:F$, $F[X]$ is a [[Principal Ideal Domain|PID]] and therefore $\text{ker }\varphi_{\alpha}=(p)$ for some $p\in F[X]$. Therefore,  $\alpha\in K$ is algebraic over $F$ if $\alpha$ is a root of non-zero $p(x)\in F[X]$. Then, $F(\alpha)$ is called the ***algebraic extension generated by $\alpha$***. Further, $\alpha$ is transcendental if such polynomial doesn't exist.
- **Related definition**: An [[Extension Field|extension]] $K:F$ is called an ***algebraic extension*** if every element $K$ is algebraic over $F$.
- **Remark**: If $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$, then it is algebraic over any extension $L:F$.
---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Proposition 1
> Let $\alpha$ be algebraic over $F$. Then,
> 1. there exists a unique monic irreducible polynomial $m_{\alpha,F}(x)\in F[X]$ that has $\alpha$ as root. 
> 2. if $f(x)\in F[X]$ also has $\alpha$ as root then, $m_{\alpha,F}(x)|f(x)$ in $F[X]$.

> [!proof]-
> Since $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$, there exists a polynomial over $F$ which has $\alpha$ as root. Let $m(x)\in F[X]$ be such polynomial with minimal degree. By multiplying it with constant if necessary, we can assume that $m$ is monic.
> 
> 1. **Showing that $m$ is irreducible**:
> 	Assume $m$ is reducible. Then, there exists $a(x),b(x)\in F[X]$ s.t. $m(x)=a(x)b(x)$ and $\deg a,\deg b<\deg m$. Since $m(\alpha)=0$, we have either $a(\alpha)=0$ or $b(\alpha)=0$. However, this is contradictory to the minimality assumption.
> 2. **Showing that $m|f$ in $F[X]$**:
> 	Let $f(x)\in F[X]$ s.t. $f(\alpha)=0$. Then, using the Euclidean algorithm we can find $q(x),r(x)\in F[X]$ s.t. $$f(x)=q(x)m(x)+r(x)$$with $\deg r<\deg m$. Then, we have: $$0=f(\alpha)=q(\alpha)m(\alpha)+r(\alpha)=r(\alpha)$$However, this contradicts the minimality assumption if $r$ is non-zero. Therefore, $m(x)|f(x)$. 
> 	
> 	This especially shows the uniqueness of such polynomial.
---
> [!lemma] Proposition 2
> Let $K:F$ and $\alpha\in K$. The following are equivalent:
> 1.  $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$. 
> 2. $[F(\alpha):F]<+\infty$

> [!proof]-
> (1=>2) holds from Theorem 2. For the converse, suppose that $[F(\alpha):F]=n$. Then, $$1,\alpha,\dots,\alpha^n$$are linearly dependent and there exists $b_{0},\dots,b_{n}\in F$ not all zero, s.t. $$b_{0}+b_{1}\alpha+\dots+b_{n}\alpha^n=0$$By defining $g(x):=b_{0}+b_{1}x+\dots+b_{n}x^n\in F[X]$, we have that $\alpha$ is algebraic over $F$. 
- **Corollary**: If $[K:F]$ is finite, $K:F$ is an [[Algebraic and Transcendental Number|algebraic extension]]. (cf. [[Extension Field|Theorem 2]])
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 3
> Let $L:K:F$. If $L$ is algebraic over $K$ and $K$ is algebraic over $F$, then $L$ is algebraic over $F$. 

> [!proof]+
> Let $\alpha\in L$. Then, $\alpha$ is algebraic over $K$ and therefore, $[K(\alpha):K]=:n$. 