#Algebra #Definition 

> [!definition]
> For a commutative [[ring]] $R$, a ***$R$-algebra*** is a ring $R'$ together with a [[ring homomorphism]] $\varphi_{R'}:R\to R'$.

^c5ec81

- **Related definition**: A ***$R$-algebra homomorphism/morphism*** is a [[ring homomorphism]] $\varphi:R_{1}\to R_{2}$ between two $R$-algebras s.t. $\varphi \circ\varphi_{R_{1}}=\varphi_{R_{2}}$. ^5fad9a
- **Related definition**: The ***scalar multiplication*** of a $R$-algebra is defined as: $$R\times R'\to R',(a,b)\mapsto \varphi_{R'}(a)\cdot b$$ ^17e5f1

- **Related definition**: A ***$R$-subalgebra*** is a subring $S$ of $R'$ s.t. $\varphi_{R'}(R)\subseteq S$.  ^c8cde0
- **Related definition**: For a $R$-algebra $R'$ and any $M\subseteq R'$, $R[M]$ is the ***$R$-subalgebra generated by $M$***, given by: $$R[M]:=\bigcap_{\begin{array}{c}T\supseteq M\\ T\text{ subalgebra of }R'\end{array}}T$$ ^ab903c


- **Related definition**: A $R$-algebra $R'$ is ***finitely generated*** if $R'=R[c_{1},\dots,c_{n}]$ for some $c_{1},\dots,c_{n}\in R'$, e.g. $\mathbb{Z}[i]$. ^a2e006
---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Lemma 1 (Generated Subalgebras)
> Let $R'$ be a $R$-algebra and $M\subseteq R'$. Then, $$R[M]=\left\{  \sum_{i\in \mathbb{N}^n}a_{i} c_{1}^{i_{1}}\dots c_{n}^{i_{n}}: a_{i}\in R, c_{1},\dots,c_{n}\in M, \text{only finitely many }a_{I}\neq 0  \right\}$$

^7a4fe7

> [!proof]-
> It is clear that the RHS is a $R$-subalgebra of $R'$. Hence, $R[M]\subseteq \{ \cdot \}$. Conversely, for any $R$-subalgebra $T$ of $R'$ containing $M$ should contain these polynomials. This proves the statement.

^9f5eed

---
> [!lemma] Lemma 2 (Finitely Generated Algebras)
> For a $R$-algebra $R'$, TFAE:
> 1. $R'$ is finitely generated.
> 2. $R'\cong R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}] / I$ for some $I\unlhd R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}]$.

^5dc1c3

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. (1=>2): Let $R'=R[c_{1},\dots,c_{n}]$. Then, there is a canonical map $$\varphi:R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}] \to R[c_{1},\dots,c_{n}]$$which is a surjective ring homomorphism. Then, $$R'\cong R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}] /\text{ker }\varphi$$
> 2. (2=>1): $R'$ is then generated by $x_{1}+I,\dots,x_{n}+I$.

^8c7b8e

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 3
> Let $A$ be a $R$-algebra with $\varphi_{A}:R\to A$.
> 1. $f\in R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}]$ induces a map $f:A^n\to A$. 

^4a29c3

> [!proof]-
> Let $f=\sum_{I}r_{I} x_{1}^{i_{1}}\dots x_{n}^{i_{n}}$. Then, we have that: $$f:A^n\to A,\quad (a_{1},\dots,a_{n})\mapsto \sum_{I}\varphi(r_{I}) a_{1}^{i_{1}}\dots a_{n}^{i_{n}}$$

^36b87d

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 4
> Let $A,B$ be $R$-algebras and $\Phi:A\to B$. Then, TFAE:
> 1. $\Phi:A\to B$ is an $R$-algebra homomorphism.
> 2. for all $f\in R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}]$, $$\Phi(f(a_{1},\dots,a_{n}))=f(\Phi(a_{1}),\dots,\Phi(a_{n})),\quad \forall a_{1},\dots,a_{n}\in A$$

^8d18d8

> [!proof]-
> We have that: 
> 1. (1=>2): Let $f:=\sum_{I}^{}r_{I}x_{1}^{i_{1}}\dots x_{n}^{i_{n}}$. Then, for any $a_{1},\dots,a_{n}\in A$:$$\begin{align}\Phi(f(a_{1},\dots,a_{n}))&=\Phi \left( \sum_{I}^{}\varphi_{A}(r_{I})a_{1}^{i_{1}}\dots a_{n}^{i_{n}} \right) \\&=\sum_{I}^{}\Phi(\varphi_{A}(r_{I}))\Phi(a_{1})^{i_{1}}\dots \Phi(a_{n})^{i_{n}}\\&=\sum_{I}^{}\varphi_{B}(r_{I})\Phi(a_{1})^{i_{1}}\dots \Phi(a_{n})^{i_{n}}\\&=f(\Phi(a_{1}),\dots,\Phi(a_{n}))\end{align}$$
> 2. (2=>1): To show that $\Phi$ is a ring homomorphism, Let $f:=x_{1}+x_{2}$. Then, $$\Phi(a+b)=\Phi(f(a,b,0,\dots,0))=f(\Phi(a),\Phi(b),\Phi(0),\dots,\Phi(0))=\Phi(a)+\Phi(b)$$Similarly $\Phi(ab)=\Phi(a)\Phi(b)$.
>    
>    Now, let $f:= r$. Then, $$\Phi(\varphi_{A}(r))=\Phi(f(0,0,\dots,0))=f(\Phi(0),\dots,\Phi(0))=\varphi_{B}(r)$$Hence, $\Phi$ is an algebra homomorphism.

^468cf4

---
##### Tensor Product with Algebras
> [!lemma] Proposition 5 (Extension of Scalars)
> Let $M$ be a $R$-[[module]] and $R'$ an $R$-algebra. For any $a\in R'$, let $\mu_{a}:R'\to R',s\mapsto as$ denote the multiplication map. Then, 
> 1. $M_{R'}:=M\otimes_{R} R'$ is a $R'$-module called ***extension of scalars*** with the scalar multiplication given by: $$a\cdot (m\otimes s):=(1\otimes  \mu_{a})(m\otimes  s)=m\otimes  (as)$$
> 2. Any $R$-module homomorphism $\varphi:M\to N$ gives rise to $\varphi_{R'}:M_{R'}\to N_{R'}$.

^cdcaca

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. Obvious.
> 2. Consider $\varphi_{R'}:=\varphi \otimes \text{id}$. 

^27e68a

- **Remark**: Any $\mathbb{R}$-vector space $V$ can be complexified into $V_{\mathbb{C}}:= V \otimes_{\mathbb{R}}\mathbb{C}$. If $V$ is $n$-dimensional, $$V_{\mathbb{C}}=V\otimes _{\mathbb{R}}\mathbb{C}\cong \mathbb{R}^n \otimes _{\mathbb{R}}\mathbb{C}\cong (\mathbb{R}\otimes _{\mathbb{R}}\mathbb{C})^n\cong \mathbb{C}^n$$ ^f164de

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 6
> Let $M,N$ be $R$-modules and $R'$ a $R$-algebra. Then, 
> 1. $(M\otimes_{R}N)_{R'}\cong M_{R'}\otimes_{R'}N_{R'}$

^bd53f4

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. Let us define: $$(M\otimes_{R}  N) \times R'\to M_{R'}\otimes _{R'}N_{R'},\quad (m\otimes  n, a)\mapsto (m\otimes  a )\otimes (n\otimes  1)$$is bilinear. Thus, $\varphi:(M\otimes_{R}N)_{R'}\to M_{R'}\otimes_{R'}N_{R'}$ with $\varphi(m\otimes n\otimes a)=(m\otimes a)\otimes (n\otimes 1)$. Similarly, $M_{R'}\times N_{R'}\to M\otimes_{R}N\otimes_{R} R',(m\otimes a,n\otimes b)\mapsto m\otimes n\otimes ab$ is a bilinear map. Hence, it induces an inverse to $\varphi$ on pure tensors. This proves the statement.

^5a73a2

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 7 (Tensor Product with Algebras)
> Let $R_{1},R_{2}$ be $R$-algebras. Then, 
> 1. there exists a homomorphism: $$\varphi:(R_{1}\otimes R_{2})\otimes (R_{1} \otimes  R_{2})\to R_{1}\otimes R_{2},\quad (s\otimes t)\otimes  (s'\otimes  t')\mapsto ss'\otimes  tt'$$
> 2. $R_{1}\otimes R_{2}$ is a $R$-algebra.

^2229a5

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. As $R_{1}\times R_{2}\times R_{1}\times R_{2}\to R_{1}\otimes R_{2}, (s,t,s',t')\mapsto ss'\otimes tt'$ is multilinear, by universal property and associativity the claim holds. 
> 2. $\varphi$ induces a multiplication on $R_{1}\otimes R_{2}$, given by: $$(R_{1}\otimes R_{2})\times(R_{1}\otimes R_{2})\to R_{1}\otimes R_{2},\quad (s\otimes t,s'\otimes t')\mapsto ss'\otimes tt'$$

^968ba1

---
##### Examples
> [!h] Example 1 (Examples of R-algebra)
> For any ring $R$,
> 1. $R[x_{1},..,x_{n}]$ is a $R$-algebra given by injection. 
> 2. for any ideal $I$, $R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}] / I$ is an $R$-algebra. 

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. $R\to R[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}]$ is a ring homomorphism.

^a1d159

---
> [!h] Example 2 (Quotient Map)
> For any $R$-algebra $A$ and an ideal $I\unlhd A$, 
> 1. $q:A\to A / I$ is a $R$-algebra homomorphism.

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. $q$ is naturally a ring homomorphism and $q(\varphi_{A}(a))=\overline{\varphi_{A}(a)}$.
---
> [!h] Example 3 (Polynomial Rings as Tensor Products)
> For a commutative ring $R$, 
> 1. $R[x,y]\cong R[x]\otimes_{R} R[y]$ as $R$-algebras. 

> [!proof]-
> By the universal property, there exists: $$\varphi:R[x]\otimes _{R}R[y]\to R[x,y],\quad f\otimes g\mapsto fg$$and $$\psi:R[x,y]\to R[x]\otimes _{R}R[y],\quad \sum_{i,j}^{}a_{i,j}x^iy^j\mapsto \sum_{i,j}^{}a_{i,j}(x^i \otimes  y^j)$$Then, $\varphi$ and $\psi$ are inverses on $x^i\otimes y^j$, which generate the whole tensor product. Hence, they are isomorphic as $R$-modules. 
> 
> To show that they are also isomorphic as $R$-algebras, notice that $\varphi$ is also a ring homomorphism as: $$\varphi((f\otimes  g)(f'\otimes  g'))=\varphi(ff'\otimes gg')=ff'gg'=fg f'g'=\varphi(f\otimes g)\varphi(f'\otimes g')$$This shows the statement.
---
> [!h] Example 4 
> We have that:
> 1. For $I,J\unlhd R$, $R / I\otimes_{R} R / J\cong R / (I+J)$ as $R$-algebras.

^5face0

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. Notice that by universal property, we have: $$\varphi:R / I\otimes _{R} R / J\to R / (I+J),\quad \varphi((a+I )\otimes ( b+J))=ab+I+J$$with the inverse $\psi:R / (I+J) \to R / I \otimes _R R / J, (r+I+J)\mapsto (r+I )\otimes (1+J)$. Hence, they are isomorphic as $R$-modules. However, we have that: $$\varphi((a+I )\otimes ( b+J)\cdot (a'+I )\otimes ( b'+J))=\varphi((aa'+I)\otimes (bb'+J))=aa'bb'+I+J$$Hence, $\varphi$ is a ring homomorphism as well.

^9cdcf6

---
