#Definition #Algebra

> [!definition]
> The ***alternating group*** $A_{n}$ of degree $n$ is defined as: $$A_{n}:=\{ \pi\in S_{n}:\pi \text{ is even} \}$$
---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Fact 1
> For every $n\geq 1$, $A_{n}\unlhd S_{n}$

>[!proof]-
>- For $n=1$, $A_{n}=S_{n}$.
>- For $n \geq 2$, we have that: $$S_{n}=A_{n}\cup(1\ 2)A_{n}=\{ \pi\in S_{n}:\pi=(1\ 2)\sigma \}$$Then, $[S_{n}:A_{n}]=2$ and $A_{n} \unlhd S_{n}$.
---
> [!lemma] Proposition 2
> $A_{n}$ is generated by $3$-cycles.

> [!proof]-
> We show that a product of a pair of 2-cycles can be written as a 3-cycle.
> 1. If $i,j,r,s,$ are pairwise different, then: $$(i\ j)(r\ s)=(i\ r\ j)(i \ r\ s)$$
> 2. If $i=r$, then: $$(i\ j)(i\ s)=(i\ s\ j)$$
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 3
> $A_{n}$ is [[Simple Group|simple]] for all $n\geq 5$.

> [!proof]+
> We prove it with induction over $n\geq 5$.
> 1. For $A_{5}$, we look at the rotations of $D$, the [[Dodecahedron group]]. $$\begin{array}{ccc}&\textsf{Type}&\textsf{Number}\\1&\textsf{Rotation of order }1&1\\15&\textsf{Rotation of order }2&15\\10&\textsf{Rotation of order }3&20\\6&\textsf{Rotation of order }5&24\\\end{array}$$
> If a normal subgroup $N \unlhd D$ has a rotation of order $>1$, then it has every rotation of the same order. Therefore, $\left| N \right|=16,21,25,\geq 36$. But as none of these numbers divide $60$, we have that $A_{5}$ is simple.
> 2. Now, let $n>5$ and assume that $A_{n-1}$ is simple. We will consider the group action $A_{n}\curvearrowright[n]$. Firstly, we define for all $i\in[n]$:$$H_{i}:=\text{St}_{A_{n}}(i)$$as the group of actions that do not change $i$.
> 	
> 	For $\pi \in A_{n}$ with $\pi(i)=j$ and for all $\sigma \in H_{i}$, we have: $$\pi \sigma \pi^{-1}(j)=j$$ and $\pi \sigma \pi^{-1}\in H_{j}$, i.e. $\pi H_{i}\pi^{-1}=H_{j}$. This means all the groups $H_{i}$ are pairwise conjugates. Therefore, $$\{ H_{1},\dots, H_{n} \}=\{ \pi H_{i}\pi ^{-1}:\pi \in A_{n} \}$$Furthermore, $H_{i}\cong A_{n-1}$ for all $i$, therefore, $H_{i}$ is simple for all $i\in [n]$.
> 	
> 	Assume that we have a non-trivial normal subgroup $K \lhd A_{n}$. Then, for all $i\in [n]$: $$K \cap H_{i}\unlhd H_{i}$$
> 	but as $H_{i}$ is simple, $K \cap H_{i}=H_{i}$ or $K \cap H_{i}=\{ \iota \}$.
> 	
> 	However, if there exists $j_{0}\in[n]$ s.t. $K \cap H_{j_{0}}=H_{j_{0}}$, then $H_{j_{0}}\leq K$. Therefore, for every $i\in[n]$ there exists $\pi\in A_{n}$ s.t. $$\pi H_{j_{0}}\pi^{-1}=H_{i}$$As $K \unlhd A_{n}$, $H_{i}\leq K$ for all $i\in[n]$. 
> 
> 	As $A_{n}$ is generated by 3-cycles and each 3-cycle is in $K$, we have that $K=A_{n}$ which is a contradiction. Therefore, for all $i\in[n]$: $$K \cap H_{i}=\{ \iota \}$$
> 	Let $\sigma\in K$ s.t. $\sigma\neq \iota$. Then, for all $i\in[n]$, $\sigma \notin H_{i}$, i.e. $\sigma$ fixes no element of $[n]$. Let $a\in[n]$ and $b=\sigma(a)\neq a$. As $n>3$, there exists $c\in[n]$ with $a\neq c\neq b$ s.t. $c\neq\sigma ^{-1}(a)$. If $d=\sigma(c)$, then $d=\sigma(c)\neq c$, $d\neq a=\sigma(c)$
> 	
> 	As $n\geq 6$, we can choose $e,f\in[n]$ s.t. $$\tau=(a, b)(c, d, e, f)\in A_{n}$$
> 	Then, $\tau \sigma \tau^{-1}$ has $b\mapsto a$ and $d\mapsto e$. As $K \unlhd A_{n}$, $\rho:=(\tau\sigma \tau ^{-1})\sigma \in K$, $\rho(a)=a$and $\rho(c)=e\neq c$. Therefore, $\rho\neq \iota$ and $\rho \in H_{a}$. 
> 	
> 	Therefore, $K=\{ \iota \}$ and $A_{n}$ is simple.
---
##### Examples
- [[Tetrahedron Group]] $\cong A_{4}$
- [[Dodecahedron group]] $\cong A_{5}$
---