#Definition #Algebra 

> [!definition]
> Let $R$ be a [[ring]]. 
> 1. A ***left $R$-module*** is a set $M$ with two operations: $$+:M\times M\to M,\quad \cdot :R\times M\to M$$ s.t. for all $m,n\in M$ and $a,b\in R$, we have:
> 	1. $(M,+,0)$ is an [[abelian group]].
> 	2. $a(m+n)=am+an$ and $(a+b)m=am+bm$.
> 	3. $a(bm)=(ab)m$.
> 	4. $1m=m$.

^65c206

- **Remark**: Similarly, one can define a ***right $R$-module***. If $R$ is commutative, a left $R$-module is also a right module by defining $rm=mr$. ^161b49
- **Remark**: For a field $K$, a $K$-module is equivalent to a $K$-[[vector space]]. ^3ed1fe

- **Related definition**: A ***submodule*** $N$ of a $R$-module $M$ is a subset $\varnothing\neq N\subseteq M$ that is closed under addition and scalar multiplication. We write $N\leq M$. ^dfbe30
- **Related definition**: For a subset $S\subseteq M$, the ***submodule generated by $S$*** is given by: $$\braket{ S }:=\left\{  \sum_{i=1}^{n}a_{i}m_{i}: a_{i}\in R,m_{i}\in M,n\in \mathbb{N}  \right\} $$ ^b68a13
- **Related definition**: For $N_{1},\dots,N_{n}\leq M$, their ***sum*** is defined as:$$N_{1}+\dots+N_{n}:=\{ m_{1}+\dots+m_{n}:m_{i}\in N_{i} \}\leq M$$If every element in $N_{1}+\dots+N_{n}$ has a unique representation, we can denote $N_{1}+\dots +N_{n}$ as $N_{1}\oplus\dots \oplus N_{n}$ and call it the ***direct sum***.
 ^e39a67
- **Related definition**: For $R$-modules $M,N$, a ***homomorphism*** is a $R$-linear map, i.e. $\varphi:M\to N$ s.t.  ^dd19d0
	1. $\varphi(m+m')=\varphi(m)+\varphi(m')$ and ^b7a3d5
	2. $\varphi(rm)=r\varphi(m)$
- **Related definition**: $\text{Hom}_{R}(M,N)$ is the space of all homomorphisms from $M$ to $N$. If $\varphi$ is bijective, it is an ***isomorphism***. ^cdd82e
- **Related definition**: A module $M$ is ***cyclic*** if there exists $x\in M$ s.t. $M=Rx$. ^3fd312
---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Proposition 1
> For $\varphi\in \text{Hom}_{R}(M,N)$, we have:
> 1. for any $N'\leq N$, $\varphi ^{-1}(N')\leq M$. In particular, $\text{ker }\varphi\leq M$.
> 2. for any $M'\leq M$, $\varphi(M')\leq N$. In particular, $\text{im }\varphi\leq N$.
> 4. $\varphi$ is injective if and only if $\text{ker }\varphi=(0)$.
> 5. $\varphi$ is surjective if and only if $\text{im }\varphi=N$.

^517a52

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. Let $a,b\in \varphi ^{-1}(N')$. Then, $a=\varphi ^{-1}(x)$ and $b=\varphi ^{-1}(y)$. Then, $\varphi(a+b)=\varphi(a)+\varphi(b)\in N'$ and $a+b\in \varphi ^{-1}(N)$. Similar with scalar multiplication. 
> 2. Analogous.
> 3. if $\varphi$ is injective, for any $m\in M$, if $\varphi(m)=0=\varphi(0)$, then $m=0$. 
>    
>    Conversely, if $\text{ker }\varphi=(0)$, then for any $m,n$ with $\varphi(m)=\varphi(n)$, $\varphi(m-n)=\varphi(m)-\varphi(n)=0$ and $m-n=0$. 
> 4. clear.

^e24c7d

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 2 (Quotients)
> For an $R$-module $M$ and its submodule $N$, the ***quotient module*** is given by $M / N$.
>1. the natural projection $\pi:M\to M / N,x\mapsto x+N$ is a surjective homomorphism.
> 3. $\text{ker }\pi=N$.

^b40df2

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. $\pi(x+y)=x+y+N=x+N+y+N=\pi(x)+\pi(y)$ and $\pi(rx)=rx+N=r\pi(x)$. Further it is surjective by definition.
> 3. We have that: $$\text{ker }\pi=\{ x\in M:x+N=N \}=\{ x\in M: x\in N\}=N$$

^85521c

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 3 (Finitely Generated Modules)
> Let $M$ be a $R$-module and $N\leq M$. 
> 1. if $N$ and $M / N$ are finitely generated, then so is $M$.
> 2. if $M$ is finitely generated, then so is $M / N$. 
> 3. $N$ doesn't need to be finitely generated when $M$ is finitely generated.

^596802

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. Let $N=\braket{ x_{1},\dots,x_{n}  }$ and $M / N=\braket{ y_{1}+N,\dots,y_{m} +N }$ for $y_{1},\dots,y_{m}\in M$, then for any $x\in M$, $$x+N=a_{1}y_{1}+\dots+a_{m}y_{m}+N$$for some $a_{i}\in R$. Hence, $a_{1}y_{1}+\dots+a_{m}y_{m}-x\in N$ and $$a_{1}y_{1}+\dots+a_{m}y_{m}-x=b_{1} x_{1}+\dots+b_{n}x_{n}$$Hence, $M=\braket{ x_{1} , \dots,x_{n},y_{1},\dots,y_{m} }$ which means $M$ is finitely generated.
> 2. Let $M=\braket{ x_{1} , \dots,x_{m} }$. Then, for every $x+N\in M / N$, $$x=a_{1}x_{1}+\dots+a_{n}x_{n}$$and we have: $x+N=a_{1}(x_{1}+N)+\dots+a_{n}(x_{n}+N)$.
> 3. Consider $R:=\mathbb{R}[x_{1},x_{2},\dots]$ and $M:=R$ a $R$-module and $N:=(x_{1},x_{2},\dots)$. Then, $R$ is finitely generated by $1$ but $N$ is not.

^38f525

---
> [!lemma] Theorem 4 (Isomorphism Theorems)
> Let $M,N$ be $R$-modules. 
> 1. for $\varphi\in \text{Hom}_{R}(M,N)$, $\varphi$ induces an isomorphism:  $M /\text{ker} \varphi\to\text{im }\varphi, \overline{m}\mapsto \varphi(m)$.
> 2. for $A,B\leq M$, we have $(A+B) / B\cong A / (A\cap B)$
> 3. for $A\leq B\leq M$, we have $(M / A) / (B/A)\cong M / B$.

^9d6653

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. Let $\psi:M / \text{ker }\varphi\to \text{im }\varphi, x+\text{ker }\varphi\mapsto \varphi(x)$. Then, it is well defined: if $x+\text{ker }\varphi=y+\text{ker }\varphi$, then $x-y\in \text{ker }\varphi$ and: $$\varphi(x)=\varphi(y+x-y)=\varphi(y)+\varphi(x-y)=\varphi(y)$$Further, it is a homomorphism as $\psi(x+y+\text{ker }\varphi)=\varphi(x+y)=\varphi(x)+\varphi(y)$ and $\psi(rx+\text{ker }\varphi)=\varphi(rx)=r\varphi(x)=r\psi(x+\text{ker }\varphi)$. More importantly, $$x+\text{ker }\varphi\in\text{ker }\psi \iff\varphi(x)=0\iff x\in \text{ker }\varphi$$Hence $\psi$ is injective and it is surjective by definition.
> 

^29ad01

---
> [!lemma] Proposition 5 
> Let $M$ be a $R$-module and $N\leq M$ be proper. TFAE:
> 1. there is no submodule $P\leq M$ with $N\subsetneq P \subsetneq M$.
> 2. $M/N$ has only trivial submodules $0$ and $M / N$.
> 3. $M / N \cong R / I$ for some maximal ideal $I\unlhd R$.

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. (1=>2): Let $P$ be some submodule that is not zero or $M/N$. Then, for the natural projection, by Proposition 1, $\pi ^{-1}(P)\leq M$. This shows that there is a submodule $N\subsetneq \pi ^{-1}(P)\subsetneq M$.
> 2. (2=>3): let $x\in M / N$ s.t. $x\neq 0$. Then, we define a $\varphi\in \text{Hom}_{R}(R,M / N)$ given as: $$\varphi:R\to M / N,\quad a\mapsto ax$$Now, as $x\neq 0$, $\text{im }\varphi\neq 0$ and $\text{im }\varphi=M / N$. Hence, we have that by isomorphism theorem $R / \text{ker }\varphi\cong M / N$. 
>    
>    Notice that by the isomorphism, $R / \text{ker }\varphi$ also has only $0$ and itself as submodules. However, as $R / \text{ker }\varphi$ is also a quotient ring, we have that the ring has only $0$ and itself as ideals, which shows that $R / \text{ker }\varphi$ is a field and $\text{ker }\varphi$ is maximal.
> 3. (3=>1): Assume that there exists a submodule $P\leq M$ with $N\subsetneq P\subsetneq M$. Then, $P / N\leq M / N$ and $\text{ker } \varphi \subsetneq\varphi^{-1}( P / N)\subsetneq R$ which proves that $I$ is not maximal. 

^e2d50e

---
> [!lemma] Theorem 6 (Cayley-Hamilton)
> Let $M$ be a finitely generated $R$-module, $I\unlhd R$ and $\varphi\in \text{Hom}_{R}(M,M)$ with $\varphi(M)\subseteq IM$. Then, 
> 1. there exists a monic polynomial $\chi\in R[x]$ with non-leading coefficients in $I$ s.t. $\chi(\varphi)=0$. 

^2596fc

> [!proof]-
> Let $m_{1},\dots,m_{n}$ be generators of $M$. By assumption $\varphi(m_{i})\in IM$ for all $i\in [n]$. Hence, there exists $a_{ij}$ for all $i,j\in[n]$ s.t. $$\varphi(m_{i})=\sum_{j}^{}a_{ij}m_{j},\quad \forall i\in[n]$$Now, from Example 4, we can consider $(M,\varphi)$ as a $R[x]$-module, where $$\left( \sum_{k}^{} a_{k}x^k \right)m=\sum_{k}a_{k}\varphi^k(m)$$Then, we can rewrite this as: $$\sum_{j}^{}a_{ij}m_{j}=x\cdot m_{i}=\sum_{j}^{}x\delta_{ij}m_{j},\quad \sum_{j}(x\delta_{ij}-a_{ij})m_{j}=0$$Hence, we get that: $$\det((x\delta_{ik}-a_{ik})_{ik})\cdot m_{j}=0,\quad \forall j\in [n]$$It follows that $\chi(\varphi):= \det((x\delta_{ik}-a_{ik})_{ik})$ is the zero homomorphism. 
> 
> Expanding the determinant we get that the non-leading coefficients are in $I$. 

^689671

---
> [!lemma] Corollary 7 (Nakayama)
> Let $M$ be a finitely generated $R$-module, $I\unlhd R$ with $IM=M$. Then, 
> 1. there is an element $a\in I$ with $am=m$ for all $m\in M$. 

^34f98c

> [!proof]-
> As $IM=M$, we can apply Cayley-Hamilton to $\varphi=\text{id}_{M}$. Then, there exists $a_{0},\dots,a_{n-1}\in I$ s.t. $$\text{id}^n+a_{n-1}\text{id}^{n-1}+\dots+a_{0}=(1+a_{n-1}+\dots+a_{0})\text{id}=0$$By setting $a:=-a_{n-1}-\dots- a_{0}$, we have that $(1-a)\text{id}= 0$ and for all $m\in M$, $m=am$.

^e10b0f

---
> [!lemma] Corollary 8 (Conditions for Isomorphisms)
> Let $M$ be a finitely generated $R$-module:
> 1. Any surjective homomorphism $\varphi:M\to M$ is an isomorphism.

^ff47ea

> [!proof]-
> Using Example 4, let us consider $(M,\varphi)$ be a $R[x]$-module with $x\cdot m:=\varphi(m)$. Then, $$x\cdot M=\varphi(M)=M$$and we can use Nakayama's lemma with $I:=(x)$. Hence, there is a polynomial $f\in (x)$ s.t. $$f\cdot m=a_{n}\varphi^n(m)+\dots+a_{1}\varphi(m)=m, \quad \forall m\in M$$Hence, if $\varphi(m)=0$, then $m=0$. Hence, $\varphi$ is injective. 

^82e201

- **Remark**: Even when $M$ is not finitely generated, if $M$ is of finite [[Composition Series|length]], then injective, surjective and bijective are equivalent. (cf. [[Composition Series|Proposition 2]]).
---
> [!lemma] Proposition 4 (Hom(,N) is left exact)
> Let $M_{1},M_{2},M_{3}$ be $R$-modules. TFAE:
> 1. $M_{1}\xrightarrow{\varphi_{1}}M_{2}\xrightarrow{\varphi_{2}}M_{3}\to 0$ is exact.
> 2. $0 \to \text{Hom}(M_{3},N)\xrightarrow{\varphi_{2}^{*}}\text{Hom}(M_{2},N)\xrightarrow{\varphi_{1}^{*}}\text{Hom}(M_{1},N)$ is exact for every $R$-module $N$ where $\varphi_{i}^{*}(\psi)=\psi \circ \varphi_{i}$. 

^13c098

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. (1=>2): Assume the sequence is exact. Then, 
> 	1. Let $\varphi ^{*}_{2}(\psi)=\psi \circ \varphi_{2}=0$ for some $\psi\in \text{Hom}(M_{3},N)$. Then, as $\varphi_{2}$ is surjective, $\psi=0$. 
> 	2. We have that $\varphi_{1}^{*}(\varphi ^{*}_{2}(\psi))=\psi \circ \varphi_{2} \circ \varphi_{1}=\psi \circ 0=0$. Hence, $\text{im }\varphi ^{*}_{2}\subseteq \text{ker }\varphi ^{*}_{1}$. Conversely, let $\psi\in \text{ker }\varphi ^{*}_{1}$. Then, $\psi \circ \varphi_{1}=0$ and $\text{ker }\varphi_{2}=\text{im }\varphi_{1}\subseteq \text{ker }\psi$. 
> 	   
> 	   Let's define $\psi':M_{3}\to N$ as follows. For any $m_{3}\in M_{3}$, by surjectivity, there exists $m_{2}\in M_{2}$ with $\varphi_{2}(m_{2})=m_{3}$. Then, $\psi'(m_{3})=\psi(m_{2})$. To show that this is well-defined, if $m_{2}'\in M_{2}$ s.t. $\varphi_{2}(m_{2}')=m_{3}$, then, $\varphi_{2}(m_{2}-m'_{2})=0$ and $$m_{2}-m'_{2}\in \text{ker }\varphi_{2}\subseteq \text{ker }\psi$$Hence, $\psi(m_{2})=\psi(m'_{2})$. 
> 	   
> 	   Further, we show that it is a homomorphism. For $a,b\in M_{3}$ with $a',b'\in M_{2}$ with $\varphi_{2}(a')=a$ and $\varphi_{2}(b')=b$, $\varphi_{2}(a'+b')=a+b$ and, $$\psi'(a+b)=\varphi_{2}(a'+b')=\varphi_{2}(a')+\varphi_{2}(b')=\psi'(a)+\psi'(b)$$Similar for scalar multiplication. 
> 	   
> 	   Lastly, $\varphi ^{*}_{2} (\psi')(m_{2})=\psi' (\varphi_{2}(m_{2}))=\psi'(m_{3})=\psi(m_{2})$. Hence, $\psi\in \text{im }\varphi ^{*}_{2}$.
> 2. (2=>1): We first show that the sequence is exact at $M_{2}$. Consider $N=M_{3}$. Then, $$0 = \varphi ^{*}_{1}(\varphi ^{*}_{2}(\text{id}_{M_{3}}))=\text{id}_{M_{3}}\circ  \varphi_{2}\circ \varphi_{1}=  \varphi_{2}\circ \varphi_{1}$$Hence, $\text{im }\varphi_{1}\subseteq \text{ker }\varphi_{2}$. Conversely, let $N:=M_{2} / \text{im } \varphi_{1}$ and $\psi:M_{2}\to N$ be the canonical projection. Then, $$\varphi ^{*}_{1}(\psi)=\psi \circ  \varphi_{1} = 0$$and $\psi\in \text{ker }\varphi ^{*}_{1}=\text{im } \varphi ^{*}_{2}$ and there exists $\psi'\in \text{Hom}(M_{3},N)$ with $\psi' \circ \varphi_{2}=\psi$. Then, $$\text{ker }\varphi_{2}\subseteq \text{ker } \psi=\text{im }\varphi_{1}$$
>    
>    For exactness at $M_{3}$, consider $N:= M_{3} / \text{im }\varphi_{2}$ and $\psi:M_{3}\to N$. Then, $$\varphi_{2}^{*}(\psi)=\psi \circ  \varphi_{2}= 0$$and by injectivity, $\psi= 0$. However, as $\psi$ is surjective by definition, we have that $M_{3} / \text{im }\varphi_{2}= 0$ and $\text{im }\varphi_{2}=M_{3}$. 

^cefc2b

- **Remark**: However, for $0\to U\xrightarrow{f}V$ exact, i.e. $f$ injective, $\text{Hom}(V,N)\to \text{Hom}(U,N)\to 0$ is not necessarily exact. Let $R:= \mathbb{Z}$ and consider $0\to \mathbb{Z} \xrightarrow{\times m} \mathbb{Z}$ where $m\notin \{ -1,1,0 \}$. Then, $$\varphi ^{*}:\mathbb{Z}\cong\text{Hom}(\mathbb{Z},\mathbb{Z})\to \text{Hom}(\mathbb{Z},\mathbb{Z})\cong \mathbb{Z},\quad n\mapsto mn$$which is not surjective. 
   ^b3a8d0
---
> [!lemma] Proposition 5
> Let: $$0 \to M_{1} \xrightarrow{\varphi} M_{2} \to \dots \to M_{n}\to 0$$be an exact sequence of $R$-modules of finite length. Then, 
> 1. $\sum_{i=1}^{n}(-1)^i \ell(M_{i})= 0$.

^98a284

> [!proof]-
> By [[Composition Series|Proposition 2.3]], $$\begin{align}\sum_{i=1}^{n}(-1)^i \ell(M_{i})&=\sum_{i=1}^{n}(-1)^i (\ell(\text{ker }\varphi_{i})+\ell(\text{im }\varphi_{i}))\\&=-\ell(\text{ker }\varphi_{1})+\sum_{i=2}^{n}(-1)^i\ell (\text{ker }\varphi_{i})+\sum_{i=1}^{n-1}(-1)^i \ell(\text{im }\varphi_{i})+(-1)^n \ell(\text{im } \varphi_{n})\\&=-\ell(\text{ker }\varphi_{1})-\sum_{i=1}^{n-1}(-1)^i\ell (\text{im }\varphi_{i})+\sum_{i=1}^{n-1}(-1)^i \ell(\text{im }\varphi_{i})+(-1)^n \ell(\text{im } \varphi_{n})\\&=-\ell(\text{ker }\varphi_{1})+(-1)^n\ell(\text{im }\varphi_{n})\\&=0\end{align}$$

^02d4e6

---
##### Examples
> [!h] Example 1
> We have:
> 1. $\{ 0 \}$ is a $R$-module.
> 1. $R$ is a $R$-module with usual addition and multiplication.
> 2. $R^n$ is a $R$-module with component-wise addition and multiplication.
> 3. $\text{Mat}_{m,n}(R)$ is a $R$-module with matrix addition and scalar multiplication.
> 4. An ideal $I\unlhd R$ is an $R$-module. To be exact, it is a submodule of $R$ as an $R$-module.
> 5. Every $R$-algebra is a $R$-module.

^b92c18

---
> [!h] Example 2 (Z modules are abelian groups)
> We have:
> 1. every [[abelian group]] $(A,+)$ is a $\mathbb{Z}$-module with usual addition and $$na:=\begin{cases}a+\dots+a&n>0\\0&n=0\\-a-\dots-a&n<0\end{cases}$$as multiplication.
> 2. every $\mathbb{Z}$-module is an abelian group.
> 3. A $\mathbb{Z}$-homomorphism between two abelian groups as $\mathbb{Z}$-modules is equivalent to an abelian group homomorphism.

^698084

---
> [!Example] Example 3 (Homomorphisms from R to M)
> Let $M$ be a $R$-module. Then, 
> 1. $M\to \text{Hom}_{R}(R,M), m\mapsto (a\mapsto am)$ is a homomorphism.
> 2. $\text{Hom}_{R}(R,M)\to M, \varphi\mapsto \varphi(1)$ is a homomorphism.
> 3. the two homomorphisms are inverses to teach other and $\text{Hom}_{R}(R,M)\cong M$.

^e60951

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. $(a\mapsto a(m+n))=(a\mapsto am+an)=(a\mapsto am)+(a\mapsto an)$ and $(a\mapsto a(bm))=b\cdot (a\mapsto am)$.
> 2. $(\varphi+\psi)(1)=\varphi(1)+\psi(1)$ and $(r \cdot\varphi)(1)=r\varphi(1)$.
> 3. For any $a\in R$, $a\varphi(1)=\varphi(a)$. Similarly, for any $m\in M$, $1\cdot m=m$.

^b6b46d

- **Remark**: $\text{Hom}_{R}(M,R)$ is not isomorphic to $M$ in general, e.g. $\text{Hom}_{\mathbb{Z}}(\mathbb{Z}^{2},\mathbb{Z})=0$. ^8af67a
---
> [!example] Example 4 (Polynomial Ring Modules)
> Let $R$ be a commutative ring. 
> 1. there exists a bijection between $R[x]\text{-Mod}$ and $R\text{-Mod}\times \text{Hom}_{R}(M,M)$.

^6a1a56

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. We define: $$\Psi: R[x]\text{-Mod}\to R\text{-Mod}\times \text{Hom}_{R}(M,M),\quad M\mapsto (M,(m\mapsto xm))$$
> 	
> 	We have that this is well-defined. Indeed, a $R[x]$-module is a $R$-module. Further, $$(m+n)x=mx+nx$$and $m\mapsto mx$ is a homomorphism.
> 	
> 	This admits an inverse $\Psi ^{-1}(M,\varphi):=M$ where $$\left( \sum_{i=1}^{n}a_{i}x^i \right)m=\sum_{i=1}^{n}a_{i} \varphi^i(m)$$Then, we have that $\Psi ^{-1}\Psi(M)=M$ and $\Psi \Psi ^{-1}(M,\varphi)=(M,\varphi)$.

^000a62

---
> [!h] Example 5 (Product of Ideal and Module)
> Let $M$ be a $R$-module. For $I\unlhd R$, we define the product: $$IM:=\{ a_{1}m_{1}+\dots+a_{n}m_{n}:n\in \mathbb{N}, a_{i}\in I, m_{i}\in M \}$$
> Then, 
> 1. $IM\leq M$. 
> 2. $M / IM$ is a $R / I$-module.
> 3. $M/IM\cong M\otimes_{R}R / I$.

^c2c2ce

> [!proof]+
> We have that:
> 1. Obvious. 
> 2. We define: $(r+I) (m+IM)= r m +IM$.
> 3. From [[Exact Sequence|Example 1]], $$0\to I\to R \to R / I\to 0$$is exact. Hence, by [[Tensor Product|Right exactness of tensor products]], $$M\otimes _{R}I\xrightarrow{\varphi} M \xrightarrow{\psi} M\otimes _{R} R / I \to 0$$is exact where $\varphi(m\otimes a)=am$ and $\psi(m)=m\otimes \overline{1}$. Further, $\text{im }\varphi=IM$. Therefore, $$M\otimes _{R} R / I=\text{im }\psi\cong M / \text{im }\varphi= M / IM$$

^467ec0

---
