#Definition #Algebra 

> [!definition]
> A [[Field Extension|field extension]] $K:F$ is ***normal*** if 
> 1. every [[Integral Domain|irreducible]] polynomial $f\in F[X]$ which has a root in $K$ splits in $K$.

---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Theorem 1
> Let $L:K$ be an extension. Then, TFAE:
> 1. $L:K$ is normal and $[L:K]<+\infty$
> 2. $L$ is a [[splitting field]] of some polynomial $f\in K[X]$

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. (1=>2): If $L:K$ is normal and finite, i.e. $L=K(\alpha_{1},\dots,\alpha_{n})$ for $\alpha_{1},\dots,\alpha_{n}\in L$ algebraic over $K$, Then, consider: $$f(x):=\prod_{i=1}^{n}m_{\alpha_{i},K}(x)$$As each $m_{\alpha_{i},K}$ is irreducible in $K[X]$ with a root $\alpha_{i}$, it splits in $L$ by normality and $f$ splits in $L$. Since $L$ is generated by $K$ and the roots of $f$, it is the splitting field of $f$ over $K$.
> 2. (2=>1): Let $L$ be a splitting field of $g\in K[X]$. Then, we know that $L:K$ is finite. Let further be $f\in K[X]$ an irreducible polynomial with a root $\alpha\in L$. We need to show that $f$ splits in $L$. 
>    
>    Let $M$ be the splitting field of $fg$ and let $\theta_{1},\theta_{2}\in M$ to be two roots of $f$. Then, $g$ splits in $M$ and $M:L$. Therefore, we have that: $$[L(\theta_{j}):L][L:K]=[L(\theta_{j}):K(\theta_{j})][K(\theta_{j}):K]$$Since $f$ is irreducible, by [[Field Extension|Isomorphism of extensions]], $K(\theta_{1})\cong K(\theta_{2})$ and $$[K(\theta_{1}):K]=[K(\theta_{2}):K]=\deg(f)$$As $L:K$ is a splitting field of $g$, $L(\theta_{j}):K(\theta_{j})$ is a splitting field of $g$. Therefore, by [[Splitting Field|Theorem 2]], the field isomorphism $\varphi:K(\theta_{1})\to K(\theta_{2})$ can be extended to an isomorphism $\sigma:L(\theta_{1})\to L(\theta_{2})$ and $[L(\theta_{1}):K(\theta_{1})]=[L(\theta_{2}):K(\theta_{2})]$. Therefore, $$[L(\theta_{1}):L]=\frac{[L(\theta_{1}):K(\theta_{1})][K(\theta_{1}):K]}{[L:K]}=\frac{[L(\theta_{2}):K(\theta_{2})][K(\theta_{2}):K]}{[L:K]}=[L(\theta_{2}):L]$$
>    Now, as $\alpha\in L$, we have that for any root $\theta$ of $f$, $[L(\theta):L]=[L(\alpha):L]=1$. Hence, $\theta\in L$ and $f$ splits in $L$. 

---
> [!lemma] Theorem 2
> Let $L:K$ be a finite normal extension with $K\subseteq M\subseteq L$. Then,
> 1. any $\phi\in \text{Mono}_{K}(M,L)$ can be extended to $\sigma\in \text{Aut}_{K}(L)=\text{Gal}(L:K)$.
> 2. for an irreducible polynomial $f\in K[X]$ and its two roots $\alpha,\beta\in L$, there exists $\sigma\in \text{Aut}_{K}(L)$ s.t. $\sigma(\alpha)=\beta$.

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. As $L:K$ is finite and normal, from Theorem 1, it is a splitting field of some polynomial $f\in K[X]$. Therefore, it is a splitting field of $f$ over $M$. Further, by injectivity, $L$ is a splitting field of $\phi(f)$ over $\phi(M)$.
> 
> 	 By applying [[Splitting Field|Theorem 2]], $\phi$ extends to a isomorphism $\sigma\in \text{Aut}_{K}(L)$.
> 2. By [[Field Extension|Theorem 6]], there exists a field isomorphism $\phi:K(\alpha)\to K(\beta)$ that extends $\text{id}_{K}$ with $\phi(\alpha)=\beta$.By considering $\phi$ as a monomorphism from $K(\alpha)$ to $L$, we get the statement by 1.
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 3 (Equivalence of Finite Normal Extension)
> Let $L:K$ be finite. Then, TFAE:
> 1. $L:K$ is normal.
> 2. for every $K\subseteq L\subseteq M$, $\text{Mono}_{K}(L,M)=\text{Aut}_{K}(L)$
> 3. there exists a normal extension $N$ of $K$ containing $L$ s.t. $\text{Mono}_{K}(L,N)=\text{Aut}_{K}(L)$

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. (1=>2): If $L:K$ is finite normal, then $L$ is the normal closure of $L:K$ and by [[Normal Closure|Lemma 2]] for any $\phi\in \text{Mono}_{K}(L,M)$, $\phi(L)\subseteq L$. However, as $L$ is a finite-dimensional $K$-vector space and $\phi$ is injective, $\phi(L)=L$ and $\phi\in \text{Aut}_{K}(L)$. The other direction holds trivially. 
> 2. (2=>3): As $L:K$ is finite, there exists a normal closure $N$. Then, $N:K$ is normal and by 2, $\text{Mono}_{K}(L:N)=\text{Aut}_{K}(L)$.
> 3. (3=>1): Let $f\in K[X]$ be a irreducible polynomial with  a root $\alpha$ in $L$. Let $\beta$ be any of its other zeros. Then, by Theorem 2 there exists $\sigma\in \text{Aut}_{K}(N)$ s.t. $\sigma(\alpha)=\beta$. However, as $\sigma|_{L}\in \text{Mono}_{K}(L,N)=\text{Aut}_{K}(L)$, $\beta=\sigma(\alpha)\in L$.

---
> [!lemma] Corollary 4
> Let $L:M:K$ be a tower of fields. If $L:K$ is normal, then $L:M$ is normal.

> [!proof]-
> For $\varphi\in \text{Hom}_{M}(L,\overline{L})\subseteq \text{Hom}_{K}(L,\overline{L})$ we get that $\varphi(L)=L$ by Theorem 2.
---
##### Examples
> [!h] Example 1
> $\mathbb{C}:\mathbb{R}$ is normal.
---
> [!h] Example 2
> We have:
> 1. $\mathbb{Q}(e^{2\pi i / p})$ is the splitting field of $x^p-1\in \mathbb{Q}[X]$ and therefore, 
> 2. $\mathbb{Q}(e^{2\pi i / p}):\mathbb{Q}$ is normal. 
---
> [!h] Example 3 (Degree-2 extensions are normal)
> Let $[K:F]=2$. Then, $K:F$ is normal.

> [!proof]-
> Let $\alpha\in K \backslash F$. Then, $F(\alpha)$ is a proper intermediate field and we have that $[K:F(\alpha)]=1$ and $[F(\alpha):F]=2$.
> 
> Let $f:=m_{\alpha,F}$. Then, $f(x)=x^2+sx+t\in F[X]$. Hence, $$f(-s-\alpha)=s^{2}+2s\alpha+\alpha^{2}-s^{2}-s\alpha+t=\alpha^{2}+s\alpha+t=f(\alpha)=0$$where $-s-\alpha\in F(\alpha)$. Hence, $K$ is the splitting field of some polynomial and $K:F$ is normal.
---
> [!h] Example 4
> We have that:
> 1. $\mathbb{Q}(\sqrt[4]{2  },i):\mathbb{Q}$ is normal.

> [!proof]+
> We show that:
> 1. We claim that $\mathbb{Q}(\sqrt[4]{2  },i)$ is the splitting field of $x^4-2$, whose roots are $\pm \sqrt[4]{2  },\pm i\sqrt[4]{ 2 }$. Firstly, the splitting field would contain $i$ and therefore, $\mathbb{Q}(\sqrt[4]{2  },i)$ is in the splitting field. However, as all the roots are contained in $\mathbb{Q}(\sqrt[4]{ 2 },i)$, it is the splitting field.
> 2. 