#Definition #Algebra

> [!definition]
> An [[Ideal (Ring)|ideal]] $\mathfrak{a}$ is called ***principal ideal***, if it is generated by a singleton set, i.e. $\mathfrak{a}=(a)$. 
> 
> A ***principal ideal domain (PID)*** is an [[integral domain]] where every ideal is a principal ideal.
---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Theorem 1 (Equivalence of Fields)
> Let $R$ be a commutative ring. Then, TFAE:
> 1. $R[X]$ is a principal ideal domain.
> 2. $R$ is a [[field]].

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. (1=>2): If $R[X]$ is a PID, $R[X]$ is an ID and therefore so is $R$ as a subring. Then, by the surjective ring homomorphism $\varphi:R[X]\to R, f\mapsto f(0)$, we have that: $$R[X] / (X)\cong R$$Therefore, $(X)$ is prime in $R[X]$ and as $R[X]$ is a PID, $(X)$ is maximal and therefore, $R$ is a field. 
>  
>    (1=>2): **Second proof**: $R$ is an integral domain (from above), let $R[X]$ be a PID. Let we will show that $R$ is a division ring. Let $0\neq a\in R$. Then, $(\{ a,X \})=(p)\unlhd R[X]$ as $R[X]$ is a PID. Therefore, $a=pq$ and $X=pr$ for some $q,r\in R[X]$. However, as $R$ is an integral domain, we have that:
>    - $0=\deg(a)=\deg(pq)=\deg(p)+\deg(q)$ and $\deg(p)=0$ and $\deg(q)=0$.
>    - $1=\deg(x)=\deg(pr)=\deg(p)+\deg(r)$ and $r=bX+c$ where $b,c\in R$. 
>      
>    Therefore, $X=pbX+pc$ and  $pb=1$ and $p\in R[X]^\times$. Hence, $(\{ a,X \})=R[X]$.
>    
>    However, this means that there exists $s,t\in R[X]$ s.t. $as+Xt=1$. Again, by degree assumptions, $as=1$ and $a\in R[X]^{\times}=R^\times$.
> 1. (2=>1): Let $R$ be a field and $I\subseteq R[X]$ an ideal s.t. $I\neq(0)$. 
>    
>    Let $q\in I$ be the element of minimal degree in $I$ s.t. $q\neq 0$. More concretely, $$q=b_{0}+b_{1}X+\dots+b_{m}X^m$$s.t. $b_{m}\neq 0$ and $\text{deg}(q)\geq 0$. We will show that $I=(q)$.
>    
>    For $p\in I$, by the [[Polynomial Ring|Euclidean algorithm]] there exists unique $s,r\in R[X]$ with $\text{deg}(r)<\text{deg}(q)$ and s.t. $$p=sq+r$$
>    
>    However, as $p\in I$ and $sq\in I$, $r\in I$ with degree smaller than $q$. As $q$ has the minimal degree in $I$, $r=0$ and $p=sq$. Therefore, $I=(q)$. 
> 
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 2 (Equivalent Definitions of GCD)
> Let $R$ be a principal ideal domain and $a,b\in R \backslash \{ 0 \}$. Then, for $d\in R$, TFAE
> 1. $d=\text{gcd}(a,b)$
> 2. $(a,b)=(d)$
> 3. there exist $x,y\in R$ s.t. $d=ax+by$ and for all $s,t\in R$, $d|as+bt$.
> 4. there exist $x,y\in R$ s.t. $d=ax+by$ and $d|a$ and $d|b$.

> [!proof]-
> 
> We have (from [[Integral Domain|Proposition 3]]):
> 1. (2=>3): Obvious.
> 2. (3=>4): Take $s=1$ and $t=0$ and vice versa.
> 3. (4=>1): We have $d|a$ and $d|b$. Further, if $c\in R$ exists with $c|a$ and $c|b$, then $c|ax$ and $c|by$. Therefore, $c|ax+by=d$. Therefore, $d=\gcd(a,b)$.
> 4. (1=>2): As $R$ is a PID, there exists $c\in R$ s.t. $(a,b)=(c)$. Then, there exists $x,y\in R$ with $c=ax+by$ and $c|a$ and $c|b$. Therefore, $c|d$ and $(d)\subseteq(c)$. However, as $d|a$ and $d|b$, $(a,b)\subseteq(d)$. Hence, $(a,b)=(d)$.
---
> [!lemma] Proposition 3
> In a principal ideal domain $R$, let $0\neq x\in R$. Then, the following are equivalent.
> 1. $x$ is [[Integral Domain|prime]].
> 2. $x$ is [[Integral Domain|irreducible]].
> 3. $(x)$ is a [[prime ideal]].
> 4. $(x)$ is a [[maximal ideal]].

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. (1=>2): By [[Integral Domain|Lemma 2]], a prime element is irreducible in an ID.
> 1. (2=>1): Let $x$ be irreducible. Then, $x\notin R^\times$ and let $a,b\in R$ s.t. $x|ab$. If $x|a$, we are done. Assume $x\nmid a$. We claim that $\gcd(x,a)=1$. 
>    
>    Let $u\in R$ s.t. $u|x$. Then, as $x$ is irreducible, $u\in R^\times$ or $u\sim x$. However, as $x\nmid a$, if $u|a$ then $u\in R^\times$. Therefore, for any $u\in R$ if $u|x$ and $u|a$ then $u\in R^\times$. Then, clearly $u|1$. 
>    
>    Therefore, by Theorem 2, there exists $p,q\in R$ s.t. $1=pa+qx$. Then, $$b=bpa+bqx=xrp+bqx=x(rp+bq)$$for some $r\in R$ as $x|ab$. Hence, $x|b$ and we have the statement.
> 3. (1=>3): [[Integral Domain|Lemma 2]]
> 4. (3=>1): [[Integral Domain|Lemma 2]]
> 5. (3=>4): Let $(x)$ be a prime ideal and suppose $(p)\subseteq(m)$. Then, as $p$ is irreducible, we have that $m\in R^\times$ or $m\sim p$. If $m\in R^\times$ then $(m)=R$ and if $m\sim p$, then $(p)=(m)$.
> 6. (4=>3): A maximal ideal is a prime ideal as $R /(x)$ is a field and hence an integral domain.

---
> [!lemma] Theorem 4 (Ascending Chain)
> Let $R$ be a PID. Then,
> 1.  any ascending chain of ideals, $I_{1}\subseteq I_{2}\subseteq\dots$ , eventually become stationary, i.e. there is a positive index $n$ such that $I_{k}=I_{n}$ for all $k\geq n$. 

> [!proof]-
> We claim that $I:=\bigcup_{i\geq 1}^{}I_{i}$ is an ideal. For $a,b\in I$ with $a\in I_{i}$ and $b\in I_{j}$ with $i\geq j$, we have $b\in I_{i}$ and $a+b\in I_{i}\subseteq I$. Similarly, for any $a\in I$, $a\in I_{i}$ for some $i$ and $ra\in I_{i}$ for any $r\in R$. Therefore, $ra\in I$. 
> 
> Hence, as $R$ is a PID, $I=(x)$ for some $x\in R$. Let $k\geq 1$ s.t. $x\in I_{k}$. For any $n\geq k$, we have that $I_{n}\subseteq I$, but also $I=(x)\subseteq I_{n}$. Therefore, $I_{n}=I$ and the chain becomes stationary. 
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 5 (PIDs and UFDs)
> We have:
> 1. Every [[principal ideal domain]] is a unique factorization domain.
> 2. A UFD $R$ is a PID if and only if every non-zero prime ideal is maximal.

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. Let $r\in R\backslash\{ 0 \}$ and $r\notin R^\times$. We want to show that there exist irreducible elements $r_{1},..,r_{n}$ such that $r=r_{1}\dots r_{n}$. 
>   
> 	If $r$ is irreducible, we are done. So assume $r$ is not irreducible. Then $r=r_{1}r_{2}$ where neither $r_{1}$ nor $r_{2}$ are units. If $r_{1}$ and $r_{2}$ are irreducible, then the proof is complete. If $r_{1}$ is not irreducible, then $r_{1}=r_{11}r_{12}$, where neither $r_{11}$ nor $r_{12}$ are units. Continuing this way, we get a proper inclusion of ideals: $$(r)\subseteq(r_{1})\subseteq(r_{11})\subseteq\dots \subseteq R$$If this process finishes in a finite number of steps, the proof is complete. But, we know by Theorem 4 that this is the case.
>2. If $R$ is a PID then every non-zero prime ideal is maximal. Conversely assume the latter. We will show first that every non-zero prime ideal is principal.
>   
> 	  Let $I$ be a non-zero prime ideal with $r\in I$. We can write this as $r=p_{1}\dots p_{n}$ as a product of irreducibles. Then as $I$ is prime, $p_{i}\in I$ for some $i$. Then, $(p_{i})$ is prime and therefore maximal. So from $(p_{i})\subseteq I$ and $I=(p_{i})$.
> 	  
> 	  Let $\mathcal{N}$ now be the set of non-principal ideals. Suppose that $\mathcal{N}$ is non-empty. Then, for any ascending chain $I_{1}\subseteq I_{2}\subseteq$ in $\mathcal{N}$ let $I:=\bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}I_{i}$. Then, $I$ is an ideal and if $I=(x)$, then $x\in I_{k}$ for some $k$. From this it holds for all $n\geq k$ that $I=(x)\subseteq I_{k}\subseteq I$, which is a contradiction as $I_{k}\in \mathcal{N}$. Hence, $I$ is not principal and $I\in \mathcal{N}$. Hence, we can use the Zorn's lemma to get a maximal element $J$. 
> 	  
> 	  As $J$ is not principal, it is not a prime ideal. However, as $J\neq R$, there exist $a,b\notin J$ s.t. $ab\in J$. Consider $(a)+J$ and $(b)+J$ which are ideals strictly bigger than $J$. By maximality, these are principal ideals, i.e. $(a)+J=(u)$ and $(b)+J=(v)$ for some $u,v\in R$. 
> 	  
> 	  Let $N:=\{ r\in R:ra\in J \}$ which is also larger than $J$ and hence principal.

- **Remark**: $\mathbb{Z}[X]$ is a unique factorization domain, but not a principal ideal domain.
---
##### Examples
> [!h] Example 1
> $\mathbb{Z}$ is a principal ideal domain, where every ideal has the form $\mathfrak{a}=m\mathbb{Z}$. 

> [!proof]-
> Let $\mathfrak{a}\subseteq \mathbb{Z}$ be an ideal and let $m:= \min\{ a\in \mathfrak{a}:a>0 \}$. If $m$ does not exist, then $\mathfrak{a}=\{ 0 \}=0\mathbb{Z}$. 
> 
> For every $x\in \mathfrak{a}$, exists $b,r\in \mathbb{Z}$ s.t. $x=bm+r$ with $0\leq r<m$, i.e. $r=x-bm\in \mathfrak{a}$. However, from $r<m$, we have that $r=0$. It follows that $x\in m\mathbb{Z}$, i.e. $\mathfrak{a}=m\mathbb{Z}$.
---