#Series  #FunctionalAnalysis 

> [!def] Problem 1
> Let $\mathcal{H}$ be a finite-dimensional Hilbert space and let $T:\mathcal{H}\to \mathcal{H}$ be a self-adjoint endomorphism. Define $$A:=\{ p(T):p\in \mathbb{C}[X] \}$$to be the (unital) sub-$C^{*}$-algebra generated by $T$.
> 1. Show that there is $v\in \mathcal{H}$ with $Av=\mathcal{H}$ if and only if each eigenvalue of $T$ has multiplicity one.
> 2. Identify the Guelfand spectrum $\widehat{A}$ with the spectrum $$\text{Sp}(T):=\{ \lambda\in \mathbb{C}|\exists v\in \mathcal{H}\backslash\{ 0 \}:Tv=\lambda v \}$$ 
> 3. Let $\mathcal{B}$ be the Borel subsets of $\widehat{A}$. The spectral theorem shows that there is a resolution of the identity $E:\mathcal{B}\to \mathcal{B}(\mathcal{H})$ such that $$T=\int_{\widehat{A}}^{} \widehat{T} \, dE $$Determine the map $E$.

Let $n=\text{dim }\mathcal{H}$. We have: 
1. $T$ is compact and self-adjoint. Therefore, there exists an orthonormal basis $\{ v_{1},\dots,v_{n} \}$ of $\mathcal{H}$. Assume that each eigenvalue of $T$ has multiplicity one. 
	Let for $v\in \mathcal{H}$ and there exists $x\in \mathcal{H}$ s.t. $x\notin Av$. 
2. Then, no two basis vector admit the same eigenvalue.
	
	Let $x\in \mathcal{H}$. Then $x=\sum_{i=1}^{n}a_{i}v_{i}$ where $a_{i}\in \mathbb{C}$. 
1. 
2. let $$\alpha\braket{  v, w }=\braket{ Tv , w } =\braket{  v, Tw }=\overline{\beta}\braket{ v , w }   $$
3. If there exists a $v\in \mathcal{H}$ with $Av=\mathcal{H}$, 
4. Let $E$ be the resolution of identity on $\widehat{A}$ given by the spectral theorem. Then, from Exercise sheet 5, $$\text{Sp}_{L^\infty(E)}(T)$$

---
1. Let $\varphi\in \widehat{A}$. Then, for any $p(x):=a_{0}+a_{1}x+\dots+a_{m}x^m\in \mathbb{C}[X]$, $$\varphi(p(T))=\varphi(a_{0}\text{id}_{\mathcal{H}}+a_{1}T+\dots+a_{m}T^m)=a_{0}\varphi(\text{id}_{\mathcal{H}})+a_{1}\varphi(T)+\dots+a_{m}\varphi(T)^m=p(\varphi(T))$$with $\varphi(T)\in \mathbb{C}$. Therefore, $\widehat{A}\subseteq \{ \varphi_{\lambda}:\lambda\in \mathbb{C} \}$ where $\varphi_{\lambda}:A\to \mathbb{C},p(T)\to p(\lambda)$. Suppose $\lambda\in \text{Sp}(T)$ with eigenvector $v$. For $p(T)=q(T)\in A$, we have that $$p(\lambda)v=p(T)v=q(T)v=q(\lambda)v$$As $v$ is non-zero, $p(\lambda)=q(\lambda)$ and $\varphi_{\lambda}$ is well-defined. Further, $\varphi_{\lambda}(\text{id}_{\mathcal{H}})=1$ and one can also easily check that $\varphi_{\lambda}$ is a character.
   
   However, if $\lambda\notin \text{Sp}(T)$, then there exists $p(T)\in A$ s.t. $(T-\lambda \text{id}_{\mathcal{H}})p(T)=\text{id}_{\mathcal{H}}$. It follows that, $$\varphi_{\lambda}((T-\lambda \text{id}_{\mathcal{H}})p(T))=\varphi_{\lambda}(T-\lambda \text{id}_{\mathcal{H}})\varphi(p(T))=0\neq 1=\varphi(\text{id}_{\mathcal{H}})$$and $\varphi_{\lambda}$ is not a character. This shows that: $$\widehat{A}=\{ \varphi_{\lambda}:\lambda\in \text{Sp}(T) \}$$
2. As $\text{Sp}(T)$ is a finite set, $\mathcal{B}=\mathcal{P}(\widehat{A})$. Let $v_{1},\dots,v_{n}$ be the orthonormal basis of eigenvectors with eigenvalues $\lambda_{1},\dots,\lambda_{n}$. 

---
