#Definition #AlgebraicTopology #Topology 

> [!definition]
> A ***CW-complex*** is a [[topological space]] given by $K:=\bigcup_{n\geq 0}^{}K^{(n)}$ with [[Final Topology|final topology]] given by inclusion $i_{n}:K^{(n)}\to K$ where:
> 1. $K^{(0)}$ is a [[Topological Space|discrete space]].
> 2. For a given set of ***cells*** $I_{n}$, let 
> 	1. $\{ B^n_{\sigma} \}_{\sigma\in I_{n}}$ be the indexed family of copies of the $n$-dimensional ball $B^n$. 
> 	2. $\{ S^{n-1}_{\sigma} \}_{\sigma\in I_{n}}$ where $S^{n-1}_{\sigma}:=\partial B^n_{\sigma}$ for all $\sigma\in I_{n}$.
> 
> 	For a given set of ***attaching maps*** $\{ f_{\partial\sigma}:S^{n-1}_{\sigma}\to K^{(n-1)}\}_{\sigma\in I_{n}}$, we have that:$$K^{(n)}:=K^{(n-1)}\cup_{f_{\partial}}\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n }}^{}B^n_{\sigma}:=\left(K^{(n-1)}\sqcup\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n }}^{}B^n_{\sigma} \right) /{\sim}$$where $\sim$ is generated by the equivalence closure of $\{ (y,f_{\partial\sigma}(y)):\sigma\in I_{n}, y\in S^{n-1}_{\sigma} \}$
- **Related definition**: $K^{(n)}$ is called the ***$n$-th skeleton*** of $K$.
- **Related definition**: A CW-complex $K$ is called 
	1. ***finite dimensional*** if there exists $n_{0}\geq 0$ with no cells of dimension $> n_{0}$. 
	2. ***infinite dimensional*** if it's not finite dimensional.
	3. ***finite*** if it only has finitely many cells.
- **Related definition**: For $\sigma\in I_{n}$,
	 1. the ***characteristic map*** for cell $\sigma\in I_{n}$, is given as $f_{\sigma}=q \circ i_{\sigma}:B^n_{\sigma}\to K^{(n)}$ where: $q:K^{(n-1)}\sqcup\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n }}^{}B^n_{\sigma} \to K^{(n)}$ is the quotient map and $i_{\sigma}:B^n_{\sigma}\to K^{(n-1)}\sqcup\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n }}^{}B^n_{\sigma}$ the inclusion.
	 2. $K_{\sigma}:=f_{\sigma}(B^n_{\sigma})$ is called the ***closed cell*** of $\sigma$.
	 3. $U_{\sigma}:=f_{\sigma}((B^n_{\sigma})^\circ)$ is called the ***open cell*** of $\sigma$ (which is not necessarily open).
- **Remark**: By definition,  $U\subseteq K$ is open/closed if and only if for all $n\geq 0$, $U\cap K^{(n)}$ is open/closed in $K^{(n)}$.
- **Related definition**: A ***subcomplex*** of a CW complex $K$ is a subspace $K'\subseteq K$ is a union of open cells $U_{\sigma}$ for $\sigma\in I'_{n}\subseteq I_{n}$ s.t. $K_{\sigma}\subseteq K'$ for all $\sigma\in I'_{n}$. 
---
##### Properties
> [!lemma] Proposition 1
> Let $K$ be a CW-complex. Then, 
> 1. A subset $S\subseteq K^{(n)}$ is open/closed in $K^{(n)}$ if and only if $f^{-1}_{\sigma}(S)$ is open/closed for all $\sigma\in I_{k}$ for $0\leq k\leq n$.
> 2. A function $g:K\to X$ is continuous if and only if $g\circ f_{\sigma}:B^n_{\sigma}\to X$ is continuous for all $n\geq 0$ and $\sigma\in I_{n}$.

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. We show this via induction over $n$. For $n=0$, a subset $S\subseteq K^{(0)}$ is open. Let $n\geq 1$ and $S\subseteq K^{(n)}$. Then, by quotient topology, $q^{-1}(S)$ is open. However, by final topology, $i_{\sigma}^{-1} \circ q^{-1}(S)=f^{-1}_{\sigma}(S)$ is open for all $\sigma\in I_{n}$. Further, $i \circ q^{-1}(S)$ is open in $K^{(n-1)}$ and by induction it holds. The converse holds by following each step in the other direction.
> 2. By [[final topology]] Proposition 1,  We have that $g:K\to X$ is continuous if and only if $g \circ i_{n}:K^{(n)}\to X$ is continuous for all $n\geq 0$. 
>    
>    Assume that $g \circ i_{n}$ is continuous for all $n\geq 0$. Let $U\subseteq X$ be open. Then, $g^{-1}(U)\cap K^{(n)}$ is open in $K^{(n)}$ and $f_{\sigma}^{-1}(g^{-1}(U))$ is open for all $\sigma\in I_{n}$. Conversely, assume that $g\circ f_{\sigma}$ is continuous for all $n\geq 0$ and $\sigma\in I_{n}$. Then, for any fixed $n$ and for $U\subseteq X$ open, $f_{\sigma}^{-1}(g^{-1}(U))$ is open for all $\sigma\in I_{k}$ for $0\leq k\leq n$. Therefore, $g^{-1}(U)\cap K^{(n)}$ is open in $K^{(n)}$. This proves the statement.
---
> [!lemma] Proposition 2 (Subcomplex)
> We have that:
> 1. A subcomplex $K'\subseteq K$ is a CW-complex.
> 2. The CW-complex topology and subspace topology on a subcomplex $K'\subseteq K$ coincide.
> 3. A subset $K\subseteq K'$ is a subcomplex if and only if $K'$ is a union of some open cells of $K$ and $K'$ is closed in $K$. 

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. For all $n\geq 0$, let $I'_{n}\subseteq I_{n}$ denote the index set for $K'$ s.t. for all $\sigma\in I'_{n}$, $U_{\sigma}\subseteq K'$. We will show that repeating the CW-complex process with $I'_{n}$ results in $K'$. Let $J^{(i)}$ be the skeletons of $K'$ and $J^{(0)}:= K'\cap K^{(0)}$.
>    
>    We claim that for all $n\geq 0$, $J^{(n)}\subseteq K'$. Of course $J^{(0)}\subseteq K'$. Now, for $J^{(n)}$, we have that: $J^{(n-1)}\subseteq K'$ and $f_{\sigma}((B^n_{\sigma})^\circ)=U_{\sigma}\subseteq K'$. Further, $f_{\partial\sigma}(S^{n-1}_{\sigma})=f_{\sigma}(S^{n-1}_{\sigma})\subseteq K_{\sigma}\subseteq K'$. Therefore, $J^{(n)}\subseteq K'$ and $J\subseteq K'$. The other direction is trivial as for each $\sigma\in I_{n}'$, $U_{\sigma}\subseteq J^{(n)}$.
> 2. We show that the two topologies agree on $K'\cap K^{(n)}$. $S\subseteq K'$ is open in the subspace topology if and only if $S\cap K^{(n)}\subseteq K'\cap K^{(n)}=J^{(n)}$ is open in $J^{(n)}$ for all $n\geq 0$. By noting $S\cap K^{(n)}=S\cap J^{(n)}$ we have that the topologies coincide.
> 3. Let $K\subseteq K'$ be a subcomplex. Then, it suffices to show that $K'\cap K^{(n)}$ is closed in $K^{(n)}$ for all $n\geq 0$, which is equivalent to $f^{-1}_{\sigma}(K'\cap K^{(n)})$ being closed for all $\sigma\in I_{k}$ for $0\leq k\leq n$. 
>    
>    We prove this via induction over $n$. For $n=0$, $K'\cap K^{(0)}$ is closed in $K^{(0)}$ as it is discrete. Then, for $n\geq 1$ and $\sigma\in I_{n}$, $$f^{-1}_{\sigma}(K'\cap K^{(n)})=f^{-1}_{\sigma}(J^{(n)})=\begin{cases}\varnothing&\sigma\notin I'_{n}\\B^n_{\sigma}&\sigma\in I'_{n}\end{cases}$$which shows that $K'$ is closed. 
>    
>    Conversely, if $K'$ is closed in $K$, then $K_{\sigma}=f_{\sigma}(B_{\sigma}^n)\subseteq \overline{f_{\sigma}((B^n_{\sigma})^\circ)}\subseteq \overline{U_{\sigma}}\subseteq \overline{K'}=K'$.
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 3 (Finiteness and Compactness)
> Let $K$ be a CW complex and $A\subseteq K$ a compact subset. 
> 1. $A$ can intersect at most finitely many open cells. 
> 2. $K$ is compact if and only if $K$ is finite.

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. Assume that there exists a sequence $(x_{i})_{i}\subseteq A$ where each of the points in distinct open cells. Then, we show that the set $S:=\{ x_{1},x_{2},\dots. \}$ is closed in $X$. Assume $S\cap K^{(n-1)}$ is closed in $K^{(n-1)}$. Then, for each $\sigma\in I_{n}$, $f^{-1}_{\partial\sigma}(S)$ is closed in $S^{n-1}_{\sigma}$. As $f^{-1}_{\sigma}(S)$ contains at most one more point than $f^{-1}_{\partial\sigma}(S)$, it is also closed in $B^n_{\sigma}$. Hence, $S\cap K^{(n)}$ is closed in $K^{(n)}$ for all $n\geq 0$ and $S$ is closed. 
>    
>    Similar argument shows that for all subset $T\subseteq S$, $T$ is closed in $K$. Hence, $S$ has the discrete topology. But it is compact as a closed set in a compact set. Hence, $S$ is finite, which is a contradiction. 
> 2. If $K$ is compact, then $K$ can intersect at most finitely many open cells and hence $K$ is finite. Conversely, if $K$ is finite, we have that $K^{(0)}$ is finite discrete hence compact. Then, for every $n\geq 1$, $K^{(n-1)}$ is compact by assumption and as we have finitely many cells at $n$, $K^{(n-1)}\sqcup\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}B^n_{\sigma}$ is compact. This implies that $K^{(n)}$ is compact. 
>    
>    Further, if $K$ is finite, $K=K^{(n)}$ for some $n$. Hence, $K$ is compact.
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 4 (Open Neighborhoods)
> We define:
> 1. $N^0_{\varepsilon}(A):=A\cap X^0$.
> 2. 
---
> [!lemma] Theorem 4 (CW-Complexes are Normal)
> All CW-complexes are [[Normal Space|normal]] and in particular Hausdorff.

> [!proof]-
> Let $K$ be a CW-complex and $A,B\subseteq K$ disjoint closed sets. We aim to construct $g:K\to[0,1]$ continuous with $g|_{A}=0$ and $g|_{B}=1$. Let's construct a continuous function $g_{n}:K^{(n)}\to[0,1]$ for each skeleton s.t. $g_{n}|_{K^{(m)}}=g_{m}$ for all $m\leq n$ and s.t. $g_{n}(A\cap K^{(n)})=0$ and $g_{n}(B\cap K^{(n)})=1$. 
> 
> Assume we have $g_{n-1}$ with the above assumptions. Then, for all $\sigma\in I_{n}$, 
> 1. $g_{n-1} \circ f_{\partial\sigma}:S^{n-1}_{\sigma}\to[0,1]$ is continuous
---

> [!lemma] Theorem 5
> We have that:
> 1. for all $n\geq 0$, there exists a continuous map $\gamma_{n}:(I^n,\partial I^n)\to (S^n,*)$ s.t. 
> 	1. $\gamma_{n}|_{(I^n)^\circ}$ is a homeomorphism to its image. 
> 	2. $(\gamma_{n})_{*}:H_{n}(I^n,\partial I^n)\to H_{n}(S^n,*)$ is an isomorphism.
> 2. for all $n\geq 0$, there exist the following:
> 	1. a generator $[I^n]\in H_{n}(I^n,\partial I^n)\cong \mathbb{Z}$.
> 	2. a generator $[S^n]\in H_{n}(S^n,*)\cong \mathbb{Z}$ with $(\gamma_{n})_{*}([I^n])=[S^n]$.
> 	3. a generator $[\partial I^{n+1}]\in \tilde{H}_{n}(\partial I^{n+1})\cong \mathbb{Z}$ with $\partial_{*}([I^{n+1}])=[\partial I^{n+1}]$.

> [!proof]- 
> We have that:
> 1. We define the maps $\gamma$ as follows:
> 	1. $\gamma_{0}:(I^0,\varnothing)\to(S^0,*),x\mapsto 1$ where $I^0$ is a point and $S^0:=\{ *,1 \}$ . Then, it's continuous and $\gamma_{0}$ is a homeomorphism on the interior. 
> 	2. $\gamma_{1}:(I^1,\partial I)\to(S^1,*)$ be the quotient map of $S^1\cong I / \partial I$. Then, $$\gamma_{1}(I^\circ )=S^1 \backslash \{ * \}$$which is a continuous injection. To show that it is homeomorphic, we show that it is open: For $U\subseteq I^\circ$, it is open in $I$ and $\gamma_{1} ^{-1}(\gamma_{1}(I))=I$ hence $\gamma_{1}(I)$ is open in $S^1$ and thereby in $S^1 \backslash \{ * \}$. 
> 	3. $\gamma_{n}:=\gamma_{1}\ \tilde{\land}\ \dots\ \tilde{\land}\ \gamma_{1}:(I^n,\partial I^n)\to (S^1 \land \dots \land S^1,*)\cong (S^n,*)$. Indeed, we have that where for $(x_{1},\dots,x_{n})\in \partial I^n\subseteq \mathbb{R}^n$, there exists $i$ s.t. $x_{i}\in \{ 0,1 \}$. Then, $$\gamma_{n}(x)=[(\gamma_{1}(x_{1}),\dots,*,\dots,\gamma_{n}(x_{n}))]=*$$To show that it is a homeomorphism, we have that: $$\gamma_{n}{(I_{n}^\circ )}=S^n \backslash \{ * \}$$Further, it is continuous. To show that it is injective, if $\gamma_{n}(x)=\gamma_{n}(y)$, then $$*\neq[(\gamma_{1}(x_{1}),\dots,\gamma_{1}(x_{n}))]=[(\gamma_{1}(y_{1}),\dots,\gamma_{1}(y_{n}))]$$which happens if $\gamma_{1}(x_{i})=\gamma_{1}(y_{i})$ for all $i$. As none of these values are $*$, we have from the injectivity of $\gamma_{1}|_{I^\circ}$ that $x_{i}=y_{i}$ for all $i\in [n]$. 
> 	   
> 	   To show that it is open, $\gamma_{n}|_{(I^n)^\circ}=q \circ(\gamma_{1}|_{I^\circ}\times\dots\times\gamma_{1}|_{I^\circ})$ and therefore is open. 
> 	
> 	Now, to show that $(\gamma_{n})_{*}$ is an isomorphism, let: $$B^n_{+}:=\{ (x_{0},\dots,x_{n})\in S^n:x_{n}\geq 0 \}, \quad B^n_{-}:=\{ (x_{0},\dots,x_{n})\in S^n:x_{n}\leq 0 \}$$Let $S^{n-1}:=B^n_{+}\cap B^n_{-}$. Then, we first claim that there exists a homotopy equivalence $$f:(S^n,B^n_{-})\to(S^n,*),\quad x\mapsto \begin{cases}0&x\in B_{\leq 1}(n)\subseteq \mathbb{R}^n\\\left( 1-\frac{1}{\|x\|} \right)x&\text{otherwise}\end{cases}$$Then, $f$ is homotopic to $\text{id}$ and hence has a homotopic inverse $\text{id}$. Therefore, $$f_{*}:H_{n}(S^n,B^n_{-})\to H_{n}(S^n,*)$$is an isomorphism. Finally, we have that the diagram commutes: $$\begin{CD}H_{n}(B_{n}^+,S^{n-1})@>\cong>> H_{n}(S^n,B^n_{-})\\@V\cong VV @Vf_{*}VV\\H_{n}(I^n,\partial I^n)@>>(\gamma_{n})_{*}>H_{n}(S^n,*)\end{CD}$$where $(B^+_{n},S^{n-1})\cong (B^n,S^{n-1})\cong (I^n,\partial I^n)$ and $H_{n}(B^+_{n},S^{n-1})\cong H_{n}(B_{n},S^{n-1})\cong H_{n}(S_{n},B^{n}_{+})$ is shown in [[Homology Theory|Example 1]]. THerefore, $(\gamma_{n})_{*}$ is an isomorphism.
> 2. Firstly, $H_{n}(I^n,\partial I^n)\cong H_{n}(B^n, S^{n-1})\cong\mathbb{Z}$ and $H_{n}(S^n,*)\cong \tilde{H}_{n}(S^n)\cong \mathbb{Z}$ and $\tilde{H}_{n}\partial I^{n+1})\cong \tilde{H}_{n}(S^n)\cong \mathbb{Z}$. Now, 
> 	1. Let $[I^0]\in H_{0}(I^0,\partial I^0)$ be a generator. By denoting $X / \varnothing:=X\sqcup\{ * \}$, we have that $S^0\cong I^0 / \partial I^0$.
> 	2. Assume we have already defined $[I^n]\in H_{n}(I^n,\partial I^n)$:
> 		1. $[S^n]:=(\gamma_{n})_{*}([I^n])$ which is a generator as $(\gamma_{n})_{*}$ is an isomorphism.
> 		2. For $[\partial I^{n+1}]$, we define first: $$\gamma'_{n}:(\partial I^{n+1},*)\to(S^n,*),\quad (x_{0},\dots,x_{n})\mapsto \begin{cases}\gamma_{n}(x_{1},\dots,x_{n})&x_{0}=1\\ *&\text{otherwise}\end{cases}$$Then, $\gamma'_{n}$ is homotopic to a homeomorphism. Hence, $(\gamma'_{n})_{*}$ is isomorphic and we set: $$[\partial I^{n+1}]:=(\gamma'_{n})^{-1}_{*}([S^n])\in \tilde{H}_{n}(\partial I^{n+1})$$
> 		3. $[I^{n+1}]:=\partial_{*}^{-1}([\partial I^{n+1}])$ where $\partial_{*}:H_{n+1}(I^{n+1},\partial I^{n+1})\to \tilde{H_{n}}(\partial I^{n+1})$ is an isomorphism as: $$0=\tilde{H}_{n+1}(I^{n+1})\to H_{n+1}(I^{n+1},\partial I^{n+1})\xrightarrow{\partial_{*}}\tilde{H}_{n}(\partial I^{n+1})\to \tilde{H}_{n}(I^{n+1})=0$$as $I^{n+1}$ is contractible. As this sequence is exact, this proves our claim.
---
> [!lemma] Lemma 6 
> Let $K$ be a CW-complex. We can identify each $n$-cell as $I^n$ with its boundary $\partial I^n$ attached to $K^{(n-1)}$. Consider: $$I^n\xrightarrow{f_{\sigma}}K^{(n)}\to K^{(n)} / K^{(n-1)}\to \bigvee_{\sigma\in I_{n}}S^n\xrightarrow{\pi_{\sigma}} S^n$$where $\pi_{\sigma}$ is a projection to the ball corresponding to $\sigma$. Then, 
> 1. $\partial I^n$ is sent to $*$.
> 2. the map is homeomorphic on $(I^n)^\circ$ to $S^n \backslash \{ * \}$.
> 3. If we identify the map with $\gamma_{n}$ and factor $\gamma_{n}=p_{\sigma} \circ f_{\sigma}$ for $p_{\sigma}:K^{(n)}\to S^n$ for all $\sigma\in I_{n}$, it holds that $p_{\sigma} \circ f_{\sigma'}=*$ for all $\sigma'\neq\sigma\in I_{n}$. 
> 5. $\oplus(f_{\sigma})_{*}:\bigoplus_{\sigma\in I_{n}}H_{p}(I^n, \partial I^n)\to H_{p}(K^{(n)},K^{(n-1)})$ is an isomorphism for all $p\in \mathbb{Z}$.
> 6. $H_{p}(K^{(n)},K^{(n-1)})=0$ for all $p\neq n$. 

> [!proof]-
> We have that:
> 1. $f_{\sigma}(\partial I^n)\subseteq K^{(n-1)}$ and therefore, it gets sent to $*$ in $S^n$. 
> 2. the map is continuous and injective. Further, its image restricted to $(I^n)^\circ$ is $S^n \backslash\{ * \}$. Further, as all maps are open we have that our map is also open on $(I^n)^\circ$. 
> 3. Assume that $p_{\sigma}(f_{\sigma'}(x))\neq*$. Then, $f_{\sigma'}(x)\in (I^n_{\sigma})^\circ$ which is a contradiction.
> 4. We first show the statement for $p=n$. Let's define $f:Z^{(n)}:=\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}^{}I^n_{}\to K^{(n)}$ s.t. $f|_{I^n_{\sigma}}=f_{\sigma}$. Then, we have that $f(\partial Z^{(n)})\subseteq K^{(n-1)}$, i.e. $f:(Z^{(n)},\partial Z^{(n)})\to(K^{(n)},K^{(n-1)})$ and we claim that:
> 	1. **Claim 1**: $f_{*}:=H_{n}(Z^{(n)},\partial Z^{(n)})\to H_{n}(K^{(n)},K^{(n-1)})$ is an isomorphism. 
> 	   We define the following spaces:
> 		- $o:=\left( \frac{1}{2},\dots, \frac{1}{2} \right)\in I^n$
> 		- $I^n_{\varepsilon}:=[\varepsilon,1-\varepsilon]^n\subseteq I^n$
> 		- $K^{(n-1)}_{\varepsilon}:=K^{(n-1)}\cup \bigcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}^{}f_{\sigma}(I^n \backslash I^n_{\varepsilon})$
> 	
> 		Then, we have the following commutative diagram: $$\begin{CD}H_{p}(Z^{(n)},\partial Z^{(n)})@>f_{*}>>H_{p}(K^{(n)},K^{(n-1)})\\@V\cong V1.V@V\cong V 2.V\\H_{p}\left( \bigsqcup_{\alpha\in I_{n}}^{}(I^n_{\sigma},I^n_{\sigma} \backslash \{ o \}) \right)&&H_{p}\left( K^{(n)},K^{(n)} \backslash \bigcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}f_{\sigma}(o) \right)\\@A\cong A 3.A@A\cong A 4.A\\H_{p}\left( \bigsqcup_{\alpha\in I_{n}}(I^n_{\varepsilon} ,I^n_{\varepsilon}\backslash \{ o \}) \right)@>\cong> 5.>H_{p}\left( K^{(n)} \backslash K^{(n-1)}_{\varepsilon},K^{(n)} \backslash \left( K^{(n-1)}_{\varepsilon}\cup \bigcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}^{}f_{\sigma}(o) \right) \right)\end{CD}$$where:
> 		1. $H_{p}(Z^{(n)},\partial Z^{(n)})\cong\bigoplus_{\sigma\in I_{n}}H_{p}(I^n_{\sigma},\partial I^n_{\sigma})$ and as $i:\partial I^n_{\sigma}\to I^n_{\sigma} \backslash \{ o \}$ is a homotopy equivalence, $i_{*}:H_{p}(\partial I^n_{\sigma})\to H_{p}(I^n_{\sigma} \backslash \{ o \})$ is an isomorphism for all $p\in \mathbb{Z}$. Therefore, by [[Homology Theory|Lemma 1.5]], $H_{p}(I^n_{\sigma},\partial I^n_{\sigma})\cong H_{p}(I^n_{\sigma},I^n_{\sigma} \backslash \{ o \})$.
> 		2. As $K^{(n-1)}$ is a strong deformation retract of $K^{(n)} \backslash \bigcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}^{}f_{\sigma}(o)$, $i_{*}$ induces an isomorphism $H_{p}(K^{(n-1)})\to H_{p}\left( K^{(n)} \backslash \bigcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}^{}f_{\sigma}(o) \right)$ for all $p\in \mathbb{Z}$. We have the isomorphism by [[Homology Theory|Lemma 1.5]].
> 		3. $(I^n_{\varepsilon}, I^n_{\varepsilon} \backslash \{ o \})$ is a deformation retract of $(I^n,I^n \backslash\{ o \})$. Therefore, the inclusion induces an isomorphism.
> 		4. As $K_{\varepsilon}^{(n-1)}$ is open and $\overline{K_{\varepsilon}^{(n-1)}}\subseteq K^{(n)} \backslash \bigcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}^{}f_{\sigma}(o)$, it holds by excision.
> 		5. for each $\sigma\in I_{n}$, $f_{\sigma}|_{I^n_{\varepsilon}}:I^n_{\varepsilon}\to f_{\sigma}(I^n_{\varepsilon})$ is a homeomorphism as $I^n_{\varepsilon}\subseteq (I^n)^\circ$. We can concluding by noting that: $$\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}f_{\sigma}(I^n_{\varepsilon})=K^{(n)} \backslash \left(K^{(n-1)}\cup\bigsqcup_{\sigma\in I_{n}}^{}f_{\sigma}(I^n \backslash I^n_{\varepsilon})\right)=K^{(n)} \backslash K^{(n-1)_{\varepsilon}}$$
> 	
> 		This shows that $f_{*}$ is an isomorphism and so is $\oplus(f_{\sigma})_{*}$ for $p\in \mathbb{Z}$ . 
> 5. Holds from the fact that $H_{p}(I^n,\partial I^n)=0$ for all $p\neq n$ and 4. (From [[Homology Theory|Example 1]])
> 		  

---
##### Examples
> [!h] Example 1
> We have that:
> 1. $K$ is a $0$-dimensional CW-complex if and only if it is a discrete space.
> 2. $K$ is a $1$-dimensional CW-complex if and only if it is a [[graph|multigraph]].
> 3. $S^n$ is a CW-complex.
> 4. $\mathbb{T}^{2}$ is a CW-complex.
> 5. [[Klein bottle]] is a CW-complex.
> 6. $\mathbb{C}\mathbb{P}^n$ is a CW-complex of dimension $2n$.
> 7. $\mathbb{R}\mathbb{P}^n$ is a CW-complex of dimension $n$.

> [!proof]-
> We have:
> 1. By definition.
> 2. $K^{(0)}$ defines the vertices and $K^{(1)}$ the edges on the vertices.
> 3. For $n\geq 1$, consider the following CW-complex:
> 	1. $K^{(0)}$ is a point space $\{ x \}$
> 	2. There are no cells for $0<i<n$.
> 	3. One cell in $I_{n}=\{ \sigma \}$ where $f_{\partial\sigma}:S^{n-1}_{\sigma}\to K^{(n-1)},\quad y\mapsto x$
> 	
> 	Then, we claim that $K^{(n)}\cong S^n$. Let: $$\psi:\{ y \}\sqcup B^n_{\sigma}\to \mathbb{R}^n\cup \{ \infty \},\quad x\mapsto \begin{cases}\infty&x=y\lor x\in S^n_{\sigma}\\ \frac{1}{1-\|x\|}&x\in (B^n_{\sigma})^\circ \end{cases}$$$\psi$ is obviously continuous and by definition it can be factored into $\psi:=\varphi \circ p$ where $p:\{ y \}\sqcup B^n_{\sigma}\to K^{(n)}$ is the quotient map. Then, $\varphi :K\to \mathbb{R}^n \cup \{ \infty \}$ is continuous and 
> 	
> 	$$S^n\cong \mathbb{R}^n\cup \{ \infty \}\cong K^{(n)}$$
> 4. Let $K^{(0)}$ be a point set and $K^{(1)}$ be two $1$-cells attached to the point. Then, we can attach a $2$-cell to $K^{(1)}$ to get $\mathbb{T}^2$.
> 5. Similar to 4.
> 6. See [[Complex Projective Space]].
> 7. Similar to 6.
---