#Series #CommutativeAlgebra

> [!def] Problem 1
> Let $I_{1},\dots,I_{k}$ be pairwise coprime ideals (in a commutative ring). Show that $I_{1}\dots I_{k}=I_{1}\cap\dots \cap I_{k}$.

We first show it for two coprime ideals $I,J$. The inclusion $IJ\subseteq I\cap J$ holds trivially by definition. For any $x\in I\cap J$, as $I,J$ are coprime, let $1=y+z$ where $y\in I$ and $z\in J$. We have that $x=xy+xz\in IJ$.

We will show the statement by induction over $k$. For $k\geq 2$, as $I_{1}\dots I_{k-1}$ is an ideal. Further, for any $x\in R$,  and especially it is coprime as: $I_{1}\dots I_{k-1}+I_{k}=R$. Then, $$I_{1}\dots I_{k-1}+I_{k}=I_{1}\dots I_{k-1}+(I_{1}\dots I_{k-2}+R)I_{k}=I_{1}\dots I_{k-2}\underbrace{ (I_{k-1}+I_{k}) }_{ =R }+I_{k}=I_{1}\dots I_{k-2}+I_{k}$$By recursively continuing, we get that $I_{1}\dots I_{k-1}+I_{k}=I_{1}+I_{k}=R$. Therefore, this reduces to the case of two coprime ideals and we have the statement.

---
> [!def] Problem 2
> Let $k$ be a field. Show that the ideal $(x_{1},\dots,x_{n})\subseteq k[x_{1},\dots,x_{n}]$ cannot be generated by less than $n$ elements.
---
> [!def] Problem 3
> Let $I\subseteq J$ be ideals in a ring $R$. $J / I$ is an ideal in $R / I$. Show that $$(R / I) / (J / I)\cong R / J$$

We define the homomorphism: $$\varphi:R / I \to R / J,\quad x+I\mapsto x+J$$
This is well-defined as if $x+I=y+I$ then $x-y\in I\subseteq J$ and $x+J=y+J$. Also one easily sees that $\varphi$ is a surjective ring homomorphism. Lastly, $$\text{ker }\varphi=\{ x+I\in R / I: x\in J \}=J / I$$By the isomorphism theorem, this proves the statement.

---
> [!def] Problem 4
> Consider the two ideals 
> 1. $I=(5,x^3+2x+3)$
> 2. $J=(4,x^2+x+1,x^2+x-1)$
> 
> in $\mathbb{Z}[x]$. Are they prime? and maximal?

We have that: $$\mathbb{Z}[x] / (5,x^3+2x+3)\cong \mathbb{Z} / 5\mathbb{Z}[x] / (x^3+2x+3)$$As $x^3+2x+3 = (x+1)(x^2+4x+3)$ and $\mathbb{Z} / 5\mathbb{Z}[x]$ is a PID, $(x^3+2x+3)$ is not a prime ideal and $\mathbb{Z}[x] / (5,x^3+2x+3)$ is not an integral domain. This shows that $I$ is neither prime nor maximal.


---
> [!def] Problem 5
> Show that on a ring $R$ the following are equivalent: 
> 1. $R$ has one prime ideal. 
> 2. Every element is a unit or nilpotent. 
> 3. $\sqrt{ (0) }$ is a maximal ideal.

We have: 
1. (1=>2): Assume there exists an element $x\in R$ that is not a unit nor nilpotent. Then, $(x)\subsetneq R$ and for all $n$, $x^n\neq 0$.  