#Series #MeasureTheory 

##### Exercise 5.1
1. We will define $(B_{i})_{i\geq 1}$ where $B_{i}:= I_{i} \backslash I_{i+1}$. By definition for all $i\geq 1$, $B_{i}$ is made up of a disjoint union of $2^{i-1}$ open intervals of length $\beta^i$. This means, $B_{i}$ is a Borel set and therefore $\mathcal{L}^1$-measurable with: $$\mathcal{L}^1(B_{i})=2^{i-1}\beta^i$$Then, for any $1 \leq i<j$, $$ B_{i}\cap B_{j}=(I_{i} \backslash I_{i+1})\cap(I_{j} \backslash I_{j+1})=(I_{i}\cap I_{j}) \cap(I_{i+1}^c\cap I^c_{j+1})=I_{j}\cap I^c_{i+1}\subseteq I_{i+1} \cap  I^c_{i+1}=\varnothing$$
	Therefore, $$\mathcal{L}^1\left( \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}B_{i} \right) =\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\mathcal{L}^1(B_{i})=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}2^{i-1}\beta^i= \frac{\beta}{1-2\beta}$$
	Further, from $\mathcal{L}^1$-measurability, it follows that: $$1=\mathcal{L}^1[0,1]=\mathcal{L}^1\left( \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}B_{i} \right) +\mathcal{L}^1\left( \underbrace{ [0,1] \backslash \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}B_{i}  }_{ =C_{\beta} }\right) $$Finally, we have that $C_{\beta}$ is $\mathcal{L}^1$-measurable and: $$\mathcal{L}^1(C_{\beta})=1- \frac{\beta}{1-2\beta}$$
2. We have that for any $n \geq 1$: $$\underline{\mu}(C_{\beta})\leq  \underline{\mu}\left( [0,1] \backslash \bigcup_{i=1}^{n}B_{i} \right)\leq \mathcal{L}^1\left( [0,1] \backslash \bigcup_{i=1}^{n}B_{i} \right)=1-\sum_{i=1}^{n}2^{i-1}\beta^i=1- \frac{\beta(1-2^n \beta^n)}{1-2\beta}$$Therefore, by $n \to \infty$ we have $\underline{\mu}(C_{\beta})=0$.
	However, it holds that $1- \frac{\beta}{1-2\beta}=\mathcal{L}^1(C_{\beta})\leq \overline{\mu}(C_{\beta})$. Therefore, $C_{\beta}$ is not Jordan measurable.
---
##### Exercise 5.2
1. We have that: $$F(0)=F\left( \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{0}{3^i} \right)=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{0}{2^{i+1}}=0 $$
	Further, 
	$$F(1)=F\left( \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{2}{3^i} \right)=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{2}{2^{i+1}}=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{2^{i}}=1$$
2. We have that for every $i\geq 1$, $$ 0 \leq \frac{a_{i}}{2^{i+1}}\leq \frac{2}{2^{i+1}}=\frac{1}{2^i}$$Therefore, $$0\leq\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\frac{a_{i}}{2^{i+1}}\leq \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{2^i}=1$$Further, for any $\varepsilon>0$, we choose $N$ s.t. $\varepsilon > \frac{1}{2^N}$. Then, let $\delta=\frac{1}{3^{N+1}}$. This means, if $\left| \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\frac{a_{i}-b_{i}}{3^i} \right|<\delta$, $a_{i}=b_{i}$ for $i \leq N$. Then, $$\left| \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{a_{i}-b_{i}}{2^{i+1}} \right|=\left| \sum_{i=N+1}^{\infty} \frac{a_{i}-b_{i}}{2^{i+1}} \right|=\frac{1}{2^{N}}\left| \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{a_{i+N}-b_{i+N}}{2^{i+1}} \right|\leq \frac{1}{2^N}<\varepsilon $$
 3. Let $x:=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{a_{i}}{2^i}$, where $a_{i}\in \{ 0,1 \}$. Then, $2a_{i}\in\{ 0,2 \}$ and$$\sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \frac{2a_{i}}{3^i}\in C$$
 4. As the image of $F$ is uncountable, $C$ is uncountable.
---
##### Exercise 5.3
1. **False**. If $B$ is measurable, as $A \backslash B$ is countable and therefore measurable, we have that $A$ is measurable as a union of two measurable sets, which is a contradiction.
2. **True**. Let $P$ be the Vitali set. Then, $[0,1) \backslash P$ is also non-$\mathcal{L}^1$-measurable, but $[0,1)$ is $\mathcal{L}^1$-measurable.
3. **True**. We can represent $\Omega$ as a disjoint union of a subset of the boundary and an open set. As open sets are always $\mathcal{L}^n$-measurable and any subset of set with zero measure is also measurable, $\Omega$ is then $\mathcal{L}^n$-measurable.
4. **False**. The line $\{ (x,x) : x\in  \mathbb{R}\}$ has measure zero. Therefore, so does $B$ and all sets with zero sets are measurable.
---
##### Exercise 5.4
1. Let $\mu:\mathcal{ P}(\mathbb{R}) \to [0,+\infty]$ be a Borel measure s.t. $\mu[a,b)=F(b)-F(a)$. We know that $\mathcal{B}(\mathbb{R})=\sigma(\mathcal{I})$, i.e. the $\sigma$-algebra generated by all half-closed intervals $[a,b)$ with $a\leq b$. As $\mu$ and $\Lambda_{F}$ coincide on all half-closed intervals and both are Borel i.e. we know that they coincide on all Borel set as well.
	
2. Firstly, one can easily see that $F(x)\leq 0$ if $x \leq 0$ and $F(x)\geq 0$ if $x \geq 0$. For $x\leq y<0$, we have that: $$F(x)=-\mu([x,0))\leq -\mu([y,0))=F(y)$$
	Similarly, for $0 < x\leq y$, $F(x)= \mu([0,x))\leq \mu([0,y))=F(y)$. Therefore, $F$ is non-decreasing. For the left continuity, for any increasing sequence $(a_{n})_{n}$ that converges to $a$. If $a <0$, 
	$$F(a)=-\mu([a,0))=-\mu \left( \bigcap_{n=1}^{\infty}[a_{n},0) \right) = -\lim_{ n \to \infty } \mu([a_{n},0)) = \lim_{ n \to \infty } F(a_{n})$$
	If $a=0$, 
	$$F(0)=0=-\mu(\varnothing)=-\mu \left( \bigcap_{n=1}^{\infty}[a_{n},0) \right) = -\lim_{ n \to \infty } \mu([a_{n},0)) = \lim_{ n \to \infty } F(a_{n})$$For $a>0$, let $(a_{n})_{n} \subseteq \mathbb{R}^+$.
	$$F(a)=\mu([0,a))=\mu \left( \bigcup_{n=1}^{\infty}[0,a_{n}) \right) = \lim_{ n \to \infty } \mu([0,a_{n})) = \lim_{ n \to \infty } F(a_{n})$$
	Now, for $\Lambda_{F}$, we have that for $a \leq b$: $$\Lambda_{F}[a,b)=F(b)-F(a)$$
	- If $a>0$, $\Lambda_{F}[a,b)=\mu[0,b) -\mu[0,a)=\mu[a,b)$
	- If $a=0$, $\Lambda_{F}[a,b)=F(b)=\mu[0,b)$
	- If $a<0, b\geq 0$, $\Lambda_{F}[a,b)=\mu[0,b)+\mu[a,0)=\mu[a,b)$
	- If $a<0, b<0$, $\Lambda_{F}[a,b)=-\mu[b,0)+\mu[a,0)=\mu[a,b)$
	  
	Therefore, $\mu$ coincides with $\Lambda_{F}$ on $\mathcal{ B}(\mathbb{R})$.
---
	
