#MeasureTheory #Series 

##### Exercise 3.1
We define the function $f:[0,1]\to[0,\lambda(E)], t\mapsto \lambda([0,t]\cap E)$. We will show that $f$ is continuous. For any two points $t_{0},t_{1}\in[0,1]$ s.t. $t_{0}<t_{1}$ and $t_{1}-t_{0}<\epsilon$ for $\epsilon>0$, we have:
$$\lambda([0,t_{1}]\cap E)=\lambda([0,t_{0}]\cap E)+\lambda([0,t_{1}]\cap E\cap[0,t_{0}]^c)\leq\lambda([0,t_{0}]\cap E)+\lambda([t_{0},t_{1}])<\lambda([0,t_{0}]\cap E)+\epsilon$$
Therefore, for $t_{0}\in[0,1]$ and $\epsilon>0$, if $|t-t_{0}|<\epsilon$ then:
$$\left| \lambda([0,t]\cap E) - \lambda([0,t_{0}]\cap E) \right|<\epsilon$$
In other words, $f$ is continuous in $[0,1]$ and therefore, it takes any given value $\delta\in[0,\lambda(E)]$ using the intermediate value theorem. Let $t_{\delta}$ be such $t$. Then, $[0,t_{\delta}]\cap E$ is the desired subset.

---
##### Exercise 3.2
1. Firstly, we have $\mu(\varnothing)=\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1(\varnothing) }=0$. Now, let's show that for any $A \subseteq \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_{i}$ $\mu(A)\leq \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\mu(A_{i})$. If $\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\mu(A_{i})=+\infty$, the condition holds trivially. So we assume $\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\mu(A_{i})<+\infty$ and therefore, $\mu(A_{i})<+\infty$ for all $i\geq 1$. Then, with the monotonicity and continuity of sqrt,
   $$\mu(A)=\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1 (A)}\leq \sqrt{ \sum_{i=1}^{\infty} \mathcal{L}^1(A_{i}) } \leq \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1 (A_{i})}=\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\mu(A_{i})$$
   Therefore, $\mu$ is a measure.
2. A set $A$ is $\mu$-measurable, if for any $B\subseteq \mathbb{R}$: $$\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1 (B)}=\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1(B\cap A) }+\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1(B\backslash A) }$$ In other words, if
	$$\mathcal{L}^1 (B)=\mathcal{L}^1(B\cap A) +\mathcal{L}^1(B\backslash A) +2\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1(B\cap A)\mathcal{L}^1(B\backslash A) }$$ 
	From the sub-additivity of $\mathcal{L}^1$, we know that $\mathcal{L}^1(B)\leq \mathcal{L}^1(B \cap A)+\mathcal{L}^1(B \backslash A)$. Therefore, this is only possible if $A$ is a $\mathcal{L}^1$-measurable set and $\sqrt{ \mathcal{L}^1(B\cap A)\mathcal{L}^1(B\backslash A) }=0$, i.e. $\mathcal{L}^1(B\cap A)$ or $\mathcal{L}^1(B \backslash A)$. 
	In other words, the set of $\mu$-measurable sets is the $\sigma$-algebra generated by the set of countable point sets $\{ \{ x \}: x\in \mathbb{R} \}$, i.e. contains $\varnothing,X$ and all countable union of point sets and their complements.
---
##### Exercise 3.3
1. Firstly, $\varnothing \in \mathcal{A}$ trivially. 
   
   For two disjoint unions $A:=\bigcup_{i=1}^{n}A_{i}$ and $B:=\bigcup_{j=1}^{m}B_{j}$, we can define a union of the two as follows: For each $B_{j}$, let $\{ B_{j,k} \}_{k}$ be the set of disjoint intervals $B_{j,k}$ s.t. $\bigcup_{k=1}^{K}B_{j,k}=B_{j}\backslash A$. Then, firstly, $K\leq n+2$, therefore, finite. Further, $B_{j}\backslash A\cap B_{j'}\backslash A=\varnothing$ for $j\neq j'$, consequently $\bigcup_{j=1}^{m}\bigcup_{k=1}^{}B_{j,k}$ is a union of disjoint intervals. Therefore, $(\bigcup_{i=1}^{n}A_{i})\cup (\bigcup_{j=1}^{m}\bigcup_{k=1}^{}B_{j,k})$ is a union of finitely many disjoint intervals, upperbounded by $n+m(n+2)$.
   
   Similarly for $A:=\bigcup_{i=1}^{n}A_{i}$ and $B:=\bigcup_{j=1}^{m}B_{j}$, the intersection $\bigcup_{i,j}^{}(A_{i }\cap B_{j})\in \mathcal A$ as for any $(i,j)\ne (i',j')$:
   $$(A_{i}\cap B_{j})\cap(A_{i'}\cap B_{j'})=\varnothing$$
	as $A$ and $B$ are disjoint unions. 
	
	Therefore, $\mathcal{A}$ is an algebra.
2. $\text{vol}:\mathcal{A} \to [0,+\infty]$ is a pre-measure if it's $\sigma$-additive. 
   
   Let's first show that $\text{vol}$ is additive. For $\{ A_{i} \}_{i=1}^n \subseteq \mathcal{A}$ where $A_{i}\neq A_{j}$ for $i\neq j$, we can write $A_{i}$ into a finite union of disjoint intervals, i.e. $A_{i}=\bigcup_{k=1}^{m_{i}}I_{i,k}$. Then, $\bigcup_{i=1}^{n}\bigcup_{k=1}^{m_{i}}I_{i,k}$ is a finite union of disjoint intervals and:
   $$\text{vol}\left(\bigcup_{i=1}^{n}A_{i}\right)=\text{vol}\left(\bigcup_{i=1}^{n}\bigcup_{k=1}^{m_{i}}I_{i,k}\right)=\sum_{i=1}^{n}\sum_{k=1}^{m_{i}}\text{vol}(I_{i,k})=\sum_{i=1}^{n}\text{vol}\left(\bigcup_{k=1}^{m_{i}}I_{i,k}\right)=\sum_{i=1}^{n}\text{vol}(A_{i})$$
	
	Now, we show that $\text{vol}$ is $\sigma$-subadditive. Let $(A_{i})_{i }\subseteq \mathcal{A}$ be a sequence s.t. $\bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_{i}\in \mathcal{A}$. If $\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\text{vol}(A_{i})=+\infty$, then the statement is true, so we will assume that $\sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\text{vol}(A_{i})<+\infty$.
	Then, for any $c<\text{vol}(\bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_{i})$, there exists a closed set $S \in \mathcal{A}$ s.t. $S \subseteq \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_{i}$ and $c \leq \text{vol}(S)$. Similarly, for any $\varepsilon>0$, we can define open sets $B_{i} \supseteq A_{i}$ s.t. $\text{vol}(B_{i})\leq \text{vol}(A_{i})+ \frac{\varepsilon}{2^i}$ for all $i$. Then,
	$$S \subseteq \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_{i}\subseteq \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty} B_{i}$$However, due to the compactness of $S$, there exists a finite index set $\Lambda$, s.t. $S \subseteq \bigcup_{\lambda\in \Lambda}^{}B_{\lambda}$. Therefore, 
	$$c\leq \text{vol}(S)\leq \text{vol}\left( \bigcup_{\lambda\in\Lambda}^{}B_{\lambda} \right) =\sum_{\lambda\in \Lambda}^{}\text{vol}(B_{\lambda})\leq \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\text{vol}(B_{i})\leq \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\text{vol}(A_{i})+\varepsilon$$
	As this holds for any $c<\text{vol}(\bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_{i})$ and $\varepsilon>0$, we have the inequality: $$\text{vol}\left( \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty}A_{i} \right) \leq \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}\text{vol}(A_{i})$$
	Therefore, $\text{vol}$ is both additive and $\sigma$-subadditive and therefore $\sigma$-additive.
---
##### Exercise 3.4
1. Let $A\subseteq X$ be a singleton set. Then, $X \backslash A\neq \varnothing$ as $X$ has more than one element and: $$1=\mu(X)\neq\mu(X \cap A)+\mu(X\backslash A)=1+1=2$$
	Therefore, $A$ is a non-$\mu$-measurable set.
2. We will show that $\lambda$ is a pre-measure, i.e. $\lambda$ is $\sigma$-additive. Let $(A_{n})_{n }\subseteq \mathcal{A}$ be a sequence of mutually disjoint sets s.t. $\bigcup_{k=1}^{\infty}A_{k}\in \mathcal{A}$. If $\lambda(\bigcup_{k=1}^{\infty}A_{k})=0$, then $\bigcup_{k=1}^{\infty}A_{k}=\varnothing$ and consequently, $A_{k}=\varnothing$ for all $k$. Therefore, $\lambda(\bigcup_{k=1}^{\infty}A_{k})=0=\sum_{k=1}^{\infty}\lambda(A_{k})$. Similarly, if $\lambda(\bigcup_{k=1}^{\infty}A_{k})=+\infty$, then $\bigcup_{k=1}^{\infty}A_{k}\neq\varnothing$ and consequently, $A_{k}\neq\varnothing$ for some $k$. Therefore, $\lambda(\bigcup_{k=1}^{\infty}A_{k})=+\infty=\sum_{k=1}^{\infty}\lambda(A_{k})$. This proves that $\lambda$ is a pre-measure.
   
   Now let's consider the counting measure $\mu:\mathcal{P}(\mathbb{R})\to [0,+\infty]$ and the CH-extension of $\lambda$, $\tilde{ \mu}:\mathcal{P}(\mathbb{R})\to [0,+\infty]$. Then, for $\tilde{ \mu}$, we have: $$\tilde{\mu}(A)=\begin{cases}+\infty &A\neq \varnothing\\0&A=\varnothing\end{cases}$$ Similarly, for $\mu$, we have $\left. \mu \right|_{\mathcal{A}}=\left. \tilde{\mu} \right|_{\mathcal{A}}=\lambda$. However, $\mu(\{ 1 \})=1\neq+\infty=\tilde{\mu}(\{ 1 \})$. This does not yield a contradiction, however, as we assume $\sigma$-finiteness for $\lambda$ in the theorem.
---
##### Exercise 3.5
1. **False**. For any measure $\mu$, we can set $A=\varnothing$. Then, for any sequence $(B_{k})_{k}$ s.t. $\sum_{k=1}^{\infty}\mu(B_{k})$, we have $A\subseteq \limsup_{ k \to \infty }B_{k}$ and $\mu(A)=0$.
2. **True**. As $A \subseteq \limsup_{ n \to \infty }B_{n}$, $A\subseteq \bigcup_{m=n}^{\infty}B_{m}$ for all $n\geq 1$.  And as $\sum_{m=1}^{\infty}\mu(B_{m})<+\infty$, for any $n\geq 1$,$$\mu(A)\leq \mu \left( \bigcup_{m=n}^{\infty}B_{m} \right) \leq \sum_{m=n}^{\infty}\mu(B_{m})=\sum_{m=1}^{\infty}\mu(B_{m})-\sum_{m=1}^{n-1}\mu(B_{m})$$Therefore, by taking the limit over $n$, we have $$\mu(A)\leq \sum_{m=1}^{\infty}\mu(B_{m})-\sum_{m=1}^{\infty}\mu(B_{m})=0$$Consequently, we have $\mu(A)=0$.
4. **True**. Suppose that there is a point $x\in A$ which appears only in finitely many of the $B_{k}$. Let $q$ be the largest number s.t. $x\in B_{q}$. Then, $A \not \subseteq \bigcup_{m=q+1}^{\infty}B_{m}$ and therefore, $A\not\subseteq \limsup_{ n \to \infty }B_{n}.$ 
5. **False**. Let $\mu$ be the Lebesgue measure and let $x,y\in\mathbb{R}^n$ be two different points. Further, let $A:=\{ x \}$ and $B_{i}:=\{ x \}$ for odd $i$ and $B_{i}:=\{ y \}$ for even $i$. Then, it follows that $A \subseteq \limsup_{ n \to \infty }B_{n}=\{ x,y \}$ and $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty}B_{n}=0$. However, we have a point $x\in A$ that does not belong to all except finitely many of $B_{n}$.
---